ahrc research development and engagement fellowship scheme.md, before:

# Aims

_p.25 of Guide v4.9:_

>The aims of the Fellowship Scheme are to provide time and support for researchers:

>- to carry out high-quality individual research which has the potential to generate a significant impact on their discipline;
>-to develop capabilities as research specialists and to create opportunities for outreach beyond their research field;
>-to undertake innovative and collaborative development activities, including the initiation of new research, which will result in benefits for their own discipline(s) and beyond.

>It should be noted that this scheme is intended to support an integrated package of research and career enhancement activities which cannot effectively be supported through the routine provision of sabbaticals or other forms of research leave commonly funded through QR.


_Enhancing Research Capabilities_

>Enhancing the fellow’s skillset is a core element of this scheme, for example by enabling mid-career and established researchers to extend their expertise into new research areas or to engage with non-academic audiences. In framing your proposal, you will need to clearly articulate a set of activities and to demonstrate both how they will enhance your role within your field, and how they significantly develop your research and its broader influence and importance.

>The activities outlined, which should be commensurate with your current career stage and trajectory, should go beyond the kinds of activities that researchers generally undertake in establishing themselves in their disciplines or in the ordinary course of their duties. In other words, the Fellowship offers the opportunity to be innovative in the types of activity which might be taken forward and allows Fellows to explore new avenues. Fellowship proposals should include a substantial programme of collaborative activities and you should be bold in thinking about what is needed to support them.

>The types of activity that individuals may wish to pursue will vary greatly from field to field, and depending on career stage, but might include the following:
• shaping research agendas;
• fostering wider impact from your research;
• developing emerging research areas, methods or approaches;
• fostering interdisciplinary research involving your field;
• encouraging new research collaborations and partnerships;
• inspiring creativity in other researchers;
• providing intellectual leadership.

>The following list is merely illustrative, and you are encouraged to be innovative in your proposal and to take risks, whilst also providing a clear rationale for the proposed activities.(p.27)

>Enhancing research capabilities which may be more suited to the standard route (mid-career and established researchers) include:
• developing new methodologies, or introducing emerging techniques, technologies or methodologies into your field;
• supporting or inspiring the development of other researchers in your field;
• establishing new lines of enquiry;
• moving into a new field;
• leading research networks.


>The extended duration of Fellowships and flexibility in time commitment is intended to facilitate such activities in addition to the provision of concentrated time for individual research. You and your Research Organisations should ensure that the flexibility afforded by the Fellowship scheme is used innovatively and appropriately, and it is your responsibility to justify the value and appropriateness of the proposed development activities in the Case for Support. (p.27)

>The lack of clarity seems to stem partly from the word ‘leadership’ and this being too narrow to encapsulate AHRC’s multifaceted approach to leadership, e.g. exploring new areas of research; developing links with industry/policy; engaging with non-academic audiences; developing management skills etc.(p.100)

_On the Research Project_

>The proposed career enhancement activities must be integrated within a research proposal that would be recognised by an international community of scholars in terms of its scholarship, originality, quality, scope and importance, and demonstrate significant potential in the subject area and beyond. The research can be at any stage in its evolution, but the proposal must demonstrate that it will lead to substantial research outputs and outline what the planned outputs and outcomes of the Fellowship will be. The nature of these outputs can vary according to the research but should be connected to the aims of the Scheme. It is your responsibility to justify the value and appropriateness of the output(s) and outcomes in the Case for Support.


>Your time commitment may vary over the duration of the Fellowship but the minimum average over the life of the Fellowship must be at least 50 per cent of your normal contracted hours (based on a standard working week of 37.5 hours per week (100 per cent time) or pro-rata for individuals who work part-time)


>When applying to this scheme, fellows will be required to articulate a set of development activities, to demonstrate how they will enhance their profile or status within their field, and how they will develop their research and its broader influence and importance. (p.101)


# Activities

- activities should be innovative, collaborative and bold
- research proposal with 'career enhancement activities' (or "Enhancing research capabilities" p.27) integrated
- benefits to my discipline and beyond
	+ what is my discipline?
	+ what are the benefits? 
	+ who and what is the 'beyond'?
- together these activities are about research and career enhancement
- how to enhance my role within the field?
- how to develop my research? 
- broaden influence and importance of my research 
- benefits to my discipline and beyond 
- overarching theme: noticing change. What is different? 
- development activities to demonstrate how they will enhance their profile or status within their field

### My career and discipline

- dance artist: choreographer, dancer, film-maker
- my discipline is dance (but intersects to differing degrees with performance and live art, visual art, theatre, film)
- focus on artistic practice-research
- making small scale art works and understanding them as research
	+ improvisation
	+ film (screendance)
	+ dramaturgy
	+ race/masculinity
	+ identity
- reflective praxis
- positioning artistic practice as a way to generate insight (both through the art practice, and reflection on the practice)
- understanding PaR
	+ first PaR PhD in Melbourne Uni (liveness, documenting the undocumentable)
	+ consolidated by 7 years teaching MA-level DPaR and practice-research PhD supervision
- a professional artist in the academy
- sustained professional practice while working in academy 

- summary: dance artist, with deep expertise in practice-research, focused on creating small-scale artistic research projects in and around personal identity. centripetal. bubble. inward. little to no concern with expanding or enhancing my career. (other than to make my work accessible -- available -- to people -- ie long-term commitment to OA)
- what have I done? what contributions have I made? Ask some people: Erica, Carol, Bagryana, Sarah, Hetty, Scott, Paul, Hamish, Bob, Lee
- what has changed? feeling of responsibility? comfort with expertise?
- two opposing agendas in this research: tighter tighter focus in research inquiry -- very specific, precise even. career enhancement focused on serving communities of scholarship, practice, and professionals. More than public engagement (although that's part of it): methods and practices of communication (for academic and non-academic audiences). **would it be possible to involve or collaborate with 2 people/organisations that focus on comms). e.g. The School of Life??
- career enhancement: in a way my focus has up to now been about me (or, rather, my work: just doing projects). That the goal here ought not to be about my skillset, my career enhancement. That these are putting the cart before the horse. Bendell useful here. 
- what would I want my career to become? clarity of communication to academic and non-academic audiences. To serve my community of practice by trialling and building various communication methods. To not make me the centre of these practices: who to partner to help me here? At the heart of this is the hunch that there is remarkable value in attempting to communicate the things that cannot be said. That there is implicit value in this research agenda.  

### Formulating a Proposal 

1. Solitude
2. Research into difference (using edge-case study)
3. Capability development: communications

## Research Agenda

- shaping research agendas
	+ noticing difference/change and communicating change
	+ move away from tacit
	+ the biggest dance of all: between allowing the work to do its work, and taking some epistemic responsibility. how to ride that line?
- developing emerging research areas, methods or approaches
- fostering interdisciplinary research 
- new research collaboration and partnerships
	+ cross disciplines
	+ Bob
	+ audiences
	+ partners
	+ C-DaRE
	+ research assistant
	+ science
	+ Lupe re language and comms (also drawing)
	+ Katrina re video essays/documentary? 
- new lines of enquiry
- new methodologies
- new techniques/new technologies
- continue pushing alternative methods of representation
- exploring alternative methods for dialogue / sharing
- recognising limit of that which is countable
- traditionally we have focused on what can be seen, but what if we use occuolocentric tools to focus on that which cannot be seen?
- building an epistemology of practice
- methods and outcomes through the visual but what is not there
- solitude practice
- collecting practice: the un/knowable body
	+ cross with science?
	+ experiential body
	+ objective body
- collecting practice: being changed by watching/doing dance
- the photograph and dance
- experimental documentation practices (continuum a long long way away from social dancing)
- 50 words (lexicon - epistemic wheel/wheel of un/knowing)
- 

## Increased skill-set

- professional development
- moving into a new field (or practices maybe?)
	+ video essays
	+ collection and exhibition practices 
	+ live conversations
		* people outside of field: e.g. Hawley on know-that
		* recorded
		* people can comment/ask questions
- outside of my bubble: building unlikely partnerships/alliances
- broadening beyond the "self" - methods of the collective/community (beyond dance as well)


## Non-academic audiences

- public impact
- fostering wider impact from research
- links with industry
	+ Dance4
	+ SDD
	+ Olafur Eliasson
	+ The School of Life
	+ other places? 
 - writing post for an organisation each month (about dance/research)


## Academic Audiences 

- inspiring creativity in other researchers  
- intellectual leadership
- leading research networks 
- dance research
- PaR generally
- philosophy (epistemology)
- fields with alternative modes of presenting research
- git technologies 


## Other possible lists (thinking about change underpinning them)

- potential impacts
- outputs
- outcomes
- disciplines
- partners -- other groups, bodies, organisations
- audiences?
- career enhancements

Commit message:

add note about changing culture and Schein

ahrc research development and engagement fellowship scheme.md, after:

# Aims

_p.25 of Guide v4.9:_

>The aims of the Fellowship Scheme are to provide time and support for researchers:

>- to carry out high-quality individual research which has the potential to generate a significant impact on their discipline;
>-to develop capabilities as research specialists and to create opportunities for outreach beyond their research field;
>-to undertake innovative and collaborative development activities, including the initiation of new research, which will result in benefits for their own discipline(s) and beyond.

>It should be noted that this scheme is intended to support an integrated package of research and career enhancement activities which cannot effectively be supported through the routine provision of sabbaticals or other forms of research leave commonly funded through QR.


_Enhancing Research Capabilities_

>Enhancing the fellow’s skillset is a core element of this scheme, for example by enabling mid-career and established researchers to extend their expertise into new research areas or to engage with non-academic audiences. In framing your proposal, you will need to clearly articulate a set of activities and to demonstrate both how they will enhance your role within your field, and how they significantly develop your research and its broader influence and importance.

>The activities outlined, which should be commensurate with your current career stage and trajectory, should go beyond the kinds of activities that researchers generally undertake in establishing themselves in their disciplines or in the ordinary course of their duties. In other words, the Fellowship offers the opportunity to be innovative in the types of activity which might be taken forward and allows Fellows to explore new avenues. Fellowship proposals should include a substantial programme of collaborative activities and you should be bold in thinking about what is needed to support them.

>The types of activity that individuals may wish to pursue will vary greatly from field to field, and depending on career stage, but might include the following:
• shaping research agendas;
• fostering wider impact from your research;
• developing emerging research areas, methods or approaches;
• fostering interdisciplinary research involving your field;
• encouraging new research collaborations and partnerships;
• inspiring creativity in other researchers;
• providing intellectual leadership.

>The following list is merely illustrative, and you are encouraged to be innovative in your proposal and to take risks, whilst also providing a clear rationale for the proposed activities.(p.27)

>Enhancing research capabilities which may be more suited to the standard route (mid-career and established researchers) include:
• developing new methodologies, or introducing emerging techniques, technologies or methodologies into your field;
• supporting or inspiring the development of other researchers in your field;
• establishing new lines of enquiry;
• moving into a new field;
• leading research networks.


>The extended duration of Fellowships and flexibility in time commitment is intended to facilitate such activities in addition to the provision of concentrated time for individual research. You and your Research Organisations should ensure that the flexibility afforded by the Fellowship scheme is used innovatively and appropriately, and it is your responsibility to justify the value and appropriateness of the proposed development activities in the Case for Support. (p.27)

>The lack of clarity seems to stem partly from the word ‘leadership’ and this being too narrow to encapsulate AHRC’s multifaceted approach to leadership, e.g. exploring new areas of research; developing links with industry/policy; engaging with non-academic audiences; developing management skills etc.(p.100)

_On the Research Project_

>The proposed career enhancement activities must be integrated within a research proposal that would be recognised by an international community of scholars in terms of its scholarship, originality, quality, scope and importance, and demonstrate significant potential in the subject area and beyond. The research can be at any stage in its evolution, but the proposal must demonstrate that it will lead to substantial research outputs and outline what the planned outputs and outcomes of the Fellowship will be. The nature of these outputs can vary according to the research but should be connected to the aims of the Scheme. It is your responsibility to justify the value and appropriateness of the output(s) and outcomes in the Case for Support.


>Your time commitment may vary over the duration of the Fellowship but the minimum average over the life of the Fellowship must be at least 50 per cent of your normal contracted hours (based on a standard working week of 37.5 hours per week (100 per cent time) or pro-rata for individuals who work part-time)


>When applying to this scheme, fellows will be required to articulate a set of development activities, to demonstrate how they will enhance their profile or status within their field, and how they will develop their research and its broader influence and importance. (p.101)


# Activities

- activities should be innovative, collaborative and bold
- research proposal with 'career enhancement activities' (or "Enhancing research capabilities" p.27) integrated
- benefits to my discipline and beyond
	+ what is my discipline?
	+ what are the benefits? 
	+ who and what is the 'beyond'?
- together these activities are about research and career enhancement
- how to enhance my role within the field?
- how to develop my research? 
- broaden influence and importance of my research 
- benefits to my discipline and beyond 
- overarching theme: noticing change. What is different? 
- development activities to demonstrate how they will enhance their profile or status within their field

### My career and discipline

- dance artist: choreographer, dancer, film-maker
- my discipline is dance (but intersects to differing degrees with performance and live art, visual art, theatre, film)
- focus on artistic practice-research
- making small scale art works and understanding them as research
	+ improvisation
	+ film (screendance)
	+ dramaturgy
	+ race/masculinity
	+ identity
- reflective praxis
- positioning artistic practice as a way to generate insight (both through the art practice, and reflection on the practice)
- understanding PaR
	+ first PaR PhD in Melbourne Uni (liveness, documenting the undocumentable)
	+ consolidated by 7 years teaching MA-level DPaR and practice-research PhD supervision
- a professional artist in the academy
- sustained professional practice while working in academy 

- summary: dance artist, with deep expertise in practice-research, focused on creating small-scale artistic research projects in and around personal identity. centripetal. bubble. inward. little to no concern with expanding or enhancing my career. (other than to make my work accessible -- available -- to people -- ie long-term commitment to OA)
- what have I done? what contributions have I made? Ask some people: Erica, Carol, Bagryana, Sarah, Hetty, Scott, Paul, Hamish, Bob, Lee
- what has changed? feeling of responsibility? comfort with expertise?
- two opposing agendas in this research: tighter tighter focus in research inquiry -- very specific, precise even. career enhancement focused on serving communities of scholarship, practice, and professionals. More than public engagement (although that's part of it): methods and practices of communication (for academic and non-academic audiences). **would it be possible to involve or collaborate with 2 people/organisations that focus on comms). e.g. The School of Life??
- career enhancement: in a way my focus has up to now been about me (or, rather, my work: just doing projects). That the goal here ought not to be about my skillset, my career enhancement. That these are putting the cart before the horse. Bendell useful here. 
- what would I want my career to become? clarity of communication to academic and non-academic audiences. To serve my community of practice by trialling and building various communication methods. To not make me the centre of these practices: who to partner to help me here? At the heart of this is the hunch that there is remarkable value in attempting to communicate the things that cannot be said. That there is implicit value in this research agenda.  
- but it's possible to imagine I'm thinking about changing the culture of PaR. See Schein in zettel slip-box. 

### Formulating a Proposal 

1. Solitude
2. Research into difference (using edge-case study)
3. Capability development: communications

## Research Agenda

- shaping research agendas
	+ noticing difference/change and communicating change
	+ move away from tacit
	+ the biggest dance of all: between allowing the work to do its work, and taking some epistemic responsibility. how to ride that line?
- developing emerging research areas, methods or approaches
- fostering interdisciplinary research 
- new research collaboration and partnerships
	+ cross disciplines
	+ Bob
	+ audiences
	+ partners
	+ C-DaRE
	+ research assistant
	+ science
	+ Lupe re language and comms (also drawing)
	+ Katrina re video essays/documentary? 
- new lines of enquiry
- new methodologies
- new techniques/new technologies
- continue pushing alternative methods of representation
- exploring alternative methods for dialogue / sharing
- recognising limit of that which is countable
- traditionally we have focused on what can be seen, but what if we use occuolocentric tools to focus on that which cannot be seen?
- building an epistemology of practice
- methods and outcomes through the visual but what is not there
- solitude practice
- collecting practice: the un/knowable body
	+ cross with science?
	+ experiential body
	+ objective body
- collecting practice: being changed by watching/doing dance
- the photograph and dance
- experimental documentation practices (continuum a long long way away from social dancing)
- 50 words (lexicon - epistemic wheel/wheel of un/knowing)
- 

## Increased skill-set

- professional development
- moving into a new field (or practices maybe?)
	+ video essays
	+ collection and exhibition practices 
	+ live conversations
		* people outside of field: e.g. Hawley on know-that
		* recorded
		* people can comment/ask questions
- outside of my bubble: building unlikely partnerships/alliances
- broadening beyond the "self" - methods of the collective/community (beyond dance as well)


## Non-academic audiences

- public impact
- fostering wider impact from research
- links with industry
	+ Dance4
	+ SDD
	+ Olafur Eliasson
	+ The School of Life
	+ other places? 
 - writing post for an organisation each month (about dance/research)


## Academic Audiences 

- inspiring creativity in other researchers  
- intellectual leadership
- leading research networks 
- dance research
- PaR generally
- philosophy (epistemology)
- fields with alternative modes of presenting research
- git technologies 


## Other possible lists (thinking about change underpinning them)

- potential impacts
- outputs
- outcomes
- disciplines
- partners -- other groups, bodies, organisations
- audiences?
- career enhancements
