case-for-support.md, before:

# Case for Support - Finger Pointing Moon


## Research questions or problems 

>You should describe clearly the research questions, issues or problems that you intend to address. What are the issues that you will be exploring in the course of your research?



## Research context 

>You should describe the research context for your project/programme of work. Why is it important that these questions or issues are explored? What other research is being or has been conducted in this area? What contribution will your project make to improving, enhancing, or developing creativity, insights, knowledge or understanding in your chosen area of study? To whom will the outcomes of your research be of particular interest?




## Research methods 

>What research methods will you be using to address the questions or issues that you have set yourself, or solve the problems you have identified, or to explore the matters you intend to investigate? Why have you chosen these methods? Why are they the best way to answer the research questions or problems you have identified? What will be your role? If there are other people involved, what will their roles be and why are they the appropriate people to be involved? 

>In describing your research methods it is not sufficient to state, for example, that you intend to visit a particular archive, or an exhibition abroad. You must provide adequate details of sources to be consulted, and you should state briefly what kinds of material you will be consulting, why they are relevant to your programme of research, and how you will interrogate them. Depending on the 
approach you are using throughout your research, you may also need to explain clearly the creative and/or performative aspects of the work, explain how you will develop a new process, product or 
tool, or provide details of who you have consulted or will be involved in the process of research.

>Under the Research Methods heading you should also outline how any copyright or intellectual property issues relating to the project and the production of any outputs will be addressed.




## Leadership development plan 

>This section of the Case for Support should include details of your proposed leadership activities, and an explanation of why these activities are appropriate to exercising research leadership in your field. You should make clear how these activities enhance the transformational potential of the research and its broader influence and importance. Please refer to Research and leadership activities for further details on what is requirement for this section.

## Project management 

>How will the project be managed? What will be the roles of the members of staff involved (including you and, if applicable, any Co-Investigator(s), any research assistants)? What is the timetable for the project? Does it include appropriate milestones and is it realistic? When will the outputs of the project be completed? How will you ensure that they meet the needs of your audience? Can the 
costs be justified? How will you ensure good value for money? 
The project management section should also include the management of the digital and data management aspects of the projects, if applicable, and should be coordinated with the information in the Data Management Plan. It should be clear what the milestones for the completion of this element and the work should be incorporated into the timetable for the whole project. The project management of the data management aspects of the project should include an assessment of risk in relation to the complexity and delivery of the project.
If a postdoctoral researcher is to be employed, you should state clearly the nature of the work they will be undertaking and describe clearly the working relationships that are envisaged between all the 
members of the research team. You should describe fully the arrangements for supervising and managing the research assistant. If the researcher is unknown you should state the skills and qualifications sought. Similarly, if the project involves a visit to or a secondment from a member of staff from another organisation, you must state clearly what work they will pursue and describe the 
working relationships envisaged with other members of the team.
In terms of supporting the research staff funded on the project, you should clearly outline the development opportunities which the project will make available. These should include opportunities both in relation to research expertise, and wider opportunities, for example, in connection with the activities proposed in the Pathways to Impact statement.

>The AHRC is one of the signatories of the RCUK Concordat to Support the Career Development of 
Researchers. More information about the Concordat and what it entails can be found here: [ukri.org/files/legacy/skills/review-tor-concordat/](https://www.ukri.org/files/legacy/skills/review-tor-concordat/)


## Dissemination

>Information under this heading should build on the details given in the Academic Beneficiaries and Impact Summary sections of the Je-S form. Please provide examples of the kinds of outputs you propose to produce during the award and their proposed focus. Please explain further how the research will benefit other researchers in the field 
and – where relevant – academic beneficiaries in other disciplines.
How do you propose to maximise the value of the proposed research outputs? You should cross refer here to the separate attachment, ‘Pathways to Impact’.

Commit message:

add Biggs 2002 editorial to 'literature' in CfS

case-for-support.md, after:

# Case for Support - Finger Pointing Moon


## Research questions or problems 

>You should describe clearly the research questions, issues or problems that you intend to address. What are the issues that you will be exploring in the course of your research?



## Research context 

>You should describe the research context for your project/programme of work. Why is it important that these questions or issues are explored? What other research is being or has been conducted in this area? What contribution will your project make to improving, enhancing, or developing creativity, insights, knowledge or understanding in your chosen area of study? To whom will the outcomes of your research be of particular interest?



### the problem of knowlege in practice-as-research (literature)

>>Have we somehow conspired to arrange matters so that knowledge is always what we say about something rather than what we show about it? [@biggs_editorial_2002]


## Research methods 

>What research methods will you be using to address the questions or issues that you have set yourself, or solve the problems you have identified, or to explore the matters you intend to investigate? Why have you chosen these methods? Why are they the best way to answer the research questions or problems you have identified? What will be your role? If there are other people involved, what will their roles be and why are they the appropriate people to be involved? 

>In describing your research methods it is not sufficient to state, for example, that you intend to visit a particular archive, or an exhibition abroad. You must provide adequate details of sources to be consulted, and you should state briefly what kinds of material you will be consulting, why they are relevant to your programme of research, and how you will interrogate them. Depending on the 
approach you are using throughout your research, you may also need to explain clearly the creative and/or performative aspects of the work, explain how you will develop a new process, product or 
tool, or provide details of who you have consulted or will be involved in the process of research.

>Under the Research Methods heading you should also outline how any copyright or intellectual property issues relating to the project and the production of any outputs will be addressed.




## Leadership development plan 

>This section of the Case for Support should include details of your proposed leadership activities, and an explanation of why these activities are appropriate to exercising research leadership in your field. You should make clear how these activities enhance the transformational potential of the research and its broader influence and importance. Please refer to Research and leadership activities for further details on what is requirement for this section.

## Project management 

>How will the project be managed? What will be the roles of the members of staff involved (including you and, if applicable, any Co-Investigator(s), any research assistants)? What is the timetable for the project? Does it include appropriate milestones and is it realistic? When will the outputs of the project be completed? How will you ensure that they meet the needs of your audience? Can the 
costs be justified? How will you ensure good value for money? 
The project management section should also include the management of the digital and data management aspects of the projects, if applicable, and should be coordinated with the information in the Data Management Plan. It should be clear what the milestones for the completion of this element and the work should be incorporated into the timetable for the whole project. The project management of the data management aspects of the project should include an assessment of risk in relation to the complexity and delivery of the project.
If a postdoctoral researcher is to be employed, you should state clearly the nature of the work they will be undertaking and describe clearly the working relationships that are envisaged between all the 
members of the research team. You should describe fully the arrangements for supervising and managing the research assistant. If the researcher is unknown you should state the skills and qualifications sought. Similarly, if the project involves a visit to or a secondment from a member of staff from another organisation, you must state clearly what work they will pursue and describe the 
working relationships envisaged with other members of the team.
In terms of supporting the research staff funded on the project, you should clearly outline the development opportunities which the project will make available. These should include opportunities both in relation to research expertise, and wider opportunities, for example, in connection with the activities proposed in the Pathways to Impact statement.

>The AHRC is one of the signatories of the RCUK Concordat to Support the Career Development of 
Researchers. More information about the Concordat and what it entails can be found here: [ukri.org/files/legacy/skills/review-tor-concordat/](https://www.ukri.org/files/legacy/skills/review-tor-concordat/)


## Dissemination

>Information under this heading should build on the details given in the Academic Beneficiaries and Impact Summary sections of the Je-S form. Please provide examples of the kinds of outputs you propose to produce during the award and their proposed focus. Please explain further how the research will benefit other researchers in the field 
and – where relevant – academic beneficiaries in other disciplines.
How do you propose to maximise the value of the proposed research outputs? You should cross refer here to the separate attachment, ‘Pathways to Impact’.
