comms.md, before:


# unforgettable letter

Hello

My name is Simon Ellis and I am a dancer. 

This note is to describe a project called _unforgettable_ that I hope you will contribute to. The project is an installation made up of letters which describe a single unforgettable moment or experience of dance. It is an attempt to catalogue a global community's unforgettable experiences of dance. As much as possible, the project will use analogue materials.

You can contribute your _unforgettable experience of dance_ in one of two ways:

1. Email me directly at simon.ellis@coventry.ac.uk. 

2. Hand write your response and post it directly to me at:

Simon Ellis
70 Rocks Lane
Barnes 
SW13 0DA
UK

Please write in any language (it will be presented in that language). It is up to you if you'd like to include your name and where it is that you call home.

If you'd like to be kept informed about the project (and where and when it will happen) just let me know and include some way of contacting you.

Thank you so much for your time and please do share this letter with people you are close to. 

Simon

--- 

In Ed Snowden's autobiography called Permanent Record he writes about the idea of an unforgettable experience:

>Here’s what strikes me when I think back to my childhood, particularly those first nine Internet-less years ... “the unforgettable experience” was not yet a threateningly literal technological description, but a passionate metaphorical prescription of significance: my first words, my first steps, my first lost tooth, my first time riding a bicycle. 

---




Dear Josh

I think we might know each other from a long way back – back when I was based in Melbourne (I’m now in London, and have been more or less since 2006). 

I imagine it’s still pretty strange in Melbourne at the moment (as it is here) so perhaps this is a particularly bad time for a cold call type email. It’s about an idea for a simple installation (perhaps for the foyer at Dancehouse?). 

I'm putting together a funding proposal to the UK’s Arts and Humanities Research Council for a "Research, Development and Engagement" Fellowship. It's a long process, and I plan to submit the proposal by Feb 2021 and look to start the 18 month project in Feb 2022.

Below is an idea for a simple installation that I thought might interest you and the community at Dancehouse (around late 2022 or early 2023?)

At this stage I'm looking for people, organisations and spaces who are potentially interested in presenting the work. This would involve becoming a project partner for the funding bid. Partnering an AHRC bid needn't be complex (and nor would being involved in the project cost Dancehouse money on top of regular operating budget), but it will involve a bit of initial toing and froing and a reasonably detailed and carefully worded support letter. In terms of timings, I need to get project partners sorted out by the end of this year.

Thanks Josh, and very best wishes.

Simon Ellis

(skellis.net)


----

_the un/knowable body: an exhibition of the ways humans think, feel, and understand the moving body_

The idea is to develop and curate an exhibition comprised of a collection of found/researched printed materials. These materials would contain and present a wide range of ideas, images, histories, knowledges, myths, concepts, understandings and misunderstandings of and about the moving human body.

The form of the exhibition is in part inspired by Olafur Eliasson's _Installation view_ at the "In real life" exhibition at Tate Modern in 2019. Here are two images from that work: <https://www.skellis.net/blog/installation-view>.

The materials in _the un/knowable body_ would be organised or curated so as to provoke surprising connections across the images and texts -- to bring together and expand the certainties and uncertainties of our understanding and experiences of the moving human body.

It's a simple idea, easily installed and presented. But it's also an idea filled with the possibilities, limitations and complexities of how we understand our moving bodies.



contact@igorandmoreno.com


I'm putting together a funding proposal to the Arts and Humanities Research Council for a "Research, Development and Engagement" Fellowship. It's a long process, and I plan to submit the proposal by Feb 2021 and look to start the 18 month project in Feb 2022.

below are a couple of ideas for installations that I thought might interest you for S'ALA. yes or no? do you have a preference?

At this stage I'm looking for people, organisations and spaces who are potentially interested in presenting the work. This would involve becoming a project partner for the funding bid. Partnering an AHRC bid needn't be complex (and nor would it need to cost The Work Room  money on top of regular operating budget), but it will involve a bit of initial toing and froing. In terms of timings, I need to get project partners sorted out by the end of this year.


----

# 1. the un/knowable body: an exhibition of the ways humans think, feel, and understand the moving body

The idea is to develop and curate an exhibition comprised of a collection of found/researched printed materials. These materials would contain and present a wide range of ideas, images, histories, knowledges, myths, concepts, understandings and misunderstandings of and about the moving human body.

The form of the exhibition is in part inspired by Olafur Eliasson's _Installation view_ at the "In real life" exhibition at Tate Modern in 2019. Here are two images from that work: <https://www.skellis.net/blog/installation-view>.

The materials in _the un/knowable body_ would be organised or curated so as to provoke surprising connections across the images and texts -- to bring together and expand the certainties and uncertainties of our understanding and experiences of the moving human body.

It's a simple idea, easily installed and presented. But it's also an idea filled with the possibilities, limitations and complexities of how we understand our moving bodies.

----

# 2. unforgettable

I'm interested in developing and curating an installation comprised of hand-written letters collected from people all around the world. Each of these letters would detail a single unforgettable personal moment or experience of dance -- whether doing, watching or making it.

Here's some background:  

At the beginning of 2020 I read Ed Snowden's autobiography called Permanent Record. Here's something he says about the concept of an unforgettable experience:

>Here’s what strikes me when I think back to my childhood, particularly those first nine Internet-less years: I can’t account for everything that happened back then, because I have only my memory to rely on. The data just doesn’t exist. When I was a child, “the unforgettable experience” was not yet a threateningly literal technological description, but a passionate metaphorical prescription of significance: my first words, my first steps, my first lost tooth, my first time riding a bicycle. (Chapter 1: Looking Through the Window)

In a digital world in which our experiences can no longer be "unforgettable" this project would be entirely analogue: the communications, the paper, the pens, the installation itself. It would be an attempt to catalogue a global community's unforgettable experiences of dance.


# the un/knowable body: an exhibition of the ways humans think, feel, and understand the moving body

I'm putting together a funding proposal to the Arts and Humanities Research Council for a "Research, Development and Engagement" Fellowship. It's a long process, and I plan to submit the proposal by Feb 2021 and look to start the 18 month project in Feb 2022. 

As part of a range of proposed activities for the fellowship, I am looking to develop and curate an exhibition comprised of a collection of found/researched printed materials. These materials would contain and present a wide range of ideas, images, histories, knowledges, myths, concepts, understandings and misunderstandings of and about the moving human body. 

The form of the exhibition is in part inspired by Olafur Eliasson's _Installation view_ at the "In real life" exhibition at Tate Modern in 2019. Here are two images from that work: <https://www.skellis.net/blog/installation-view>.

The materials in _the un/knowable body_ would be organised or curated so as to provoke surprising connections across the images and texts -- to bring together and expand the certainties and uncertainties of our understanding and experiences of the moving human body.

It's a simple idea, easily installed and presented. But it's also an idea filled with the possibilities, limitations and complexities of how we understand our moving bodies. 

At this stage I'm looking for people, organisations and spaces who 
are potentially interested in presenting the work. This would involve becoming a project partner for the funding bid. Partnering an AHRC bid needn't be complex (and nor would it need to cost your organisation money on top of regular operating budget), but it will involve a bit of initial toing and froing. In terms of timings, I need to get project partners sorted out by the end of this year. 



Requirements? -- length of wall? different versions available?  


# unforgettable

wiekeeringa@yorkshiredance.com
Eddie.Nixon@theplace.org.uk
contact@igorandmoreno.com

unforgettable experiences in dance: a project proposal

Dear Wieke

I trust you are keeping well and that Yorkshire Dance is finding a way through these strange and discombobulating CV-19 times.

When we last had a brief email exchange I hinted at a project proposal that I thought might interest you. Here goes ...

I'm putting together a funding proposal to the Arts and Humanities Research Council for a "Research, Development and Engagement" Fellowship. It's a long process, and I plan to submit the proposal by Feb 2021 and look to start the 18 month project in Feb 2022. 

As part of a range of proposed activities for the fellowship, I'm interested in developing and curating an installation comprised of hand-written letters collected from people all around the world. Each of these letters would detail a single unforgettable personal moment or experience of dance -- whether doing, watching or making it.

Here's some background:   

At the beginning of 2020 I read Ed Snowden's autobiography called Permanent Record. Here's something he says about the concept of an unforgettable experience: 

>Here’s what strikes me when I think back to my childhood, particularly those first nine Internet-less years: I can’t account for everything that happened back then, because I have only my memory to rely on. The data just doesn’t exist. When I was a child, “the unforgettable experience” was not yet a threateningly literal technological description, but a passionate metaphorical prescription of significance: my first words, my first steps, my first lost tooth, my first time riding a bicycle. (Chapter 1: Looking Through the Window)

In a digital world in which our experiences can no longer be "unforgettable" this project would be entirely analogue: the communications, the paper, the pens, the installation itself. It would be an attempt to catalogue a global community's unforgettable experiences of dance.

Perhaps the first question is, does this interest you?

If yes, perhaps we can talk about what this might mean for Yorkshire Dance. Partnering an AHRC bid needn't be complex (and nor would it need to cost YD money on top of regular operating budget), but it will involve a bit of toing and froing. In terms of timings, I need to get project partners sorted out by the end of this year. 

Thanks Wieke, and I look forward to your response.

Simon







The fellowship is designed to include a period of research and a strong developmental component. For the research component I plan to look at and practice a number of things to do with what the body "knows" and how those understandings are communicated. The developmental component is focused on communicating

Commit message:

add various edits to lots of documents. Main changes to CfS -- start of Development Plan

comms.md, after:


# unforgettable: a proposal

'Unforgettable' is an art project by choreographer Simon Ellis made up of a collection of hand-crafted letters that each describe a single unforgettable moment or experience of dance or dancing. Here's an example:

"It's 2005. I'm in the middle of lots of bodies. The music is loud. The room is sweating. I feel as if the movement is happening to me, and that I couldn't stop it even if I wanted to: moving, sweating, moving, dancing." - anonymous, USA.

Here's another:

"I saw a dance performance by Helen Herbertson and Ben Cobham, but don't remember the name of the work. It must have been around 1997. All I remember is the feeling that my life was now different; that I saw things differently ... that I understood how limited our time is on Earth." - SB, Melbourne.

'Unforgettable' will be part of a larger dance research project called 'Finger Pointing Moon' planned to start in 2022.  

Simon is looking for possible project partners around the world who might be interested in hosting the exhibition (or who are affiliated to dance or art spaces that could host it) and perhaps helping to create a small series of activities around the exhibition. 




# unforgettable letter

Hello

My name is Simon Ellis and I am a dancer. 

This note is to invite you to contribute to an art project called _unforgettable_. The project is an exhibition made up of a collection of hand-crafted letters that each describe a single unforgettable moment or experience of dance or dancing. My hope is that the project will become a growing catalogue of a global community's experiences of dance.

You can contribute your _unforgettable experience of dance_ in one of two ways:

1. Email me directly at simon.ellis@coventry.ac.uk. 

2. Hand write your response and post it directly to me at:

Simon Ellis
70 Rocks Lane
Barnes 
SW13 0DA
UK

Please write in any language (it will be presented in that language). Your letter might only be a sentence, or it might have more detail. It is also up to you if you'd prefer to include your name and where it is that you call home.

If you'd like to be kept informed about the project (and where and when it will happen) just let me know and include some way of contacting you.

Thank you so much for your time and please do share this letter with people you are close to. 

Simon

It's 1995. I'm in the middle of lots of bodies. The music is loud. The room is sweating. I feel as if the movement is happening to me, and that I couldn't stop it even if I wanted to: moving, sweating, moving, dancing. 


--- 

In Ed Snowden's autobiography called Permanent Record he writes about the idea of an unforgettable experience:

>Here’s what strikes me when I think back to my childhood, particularly those first nine Internet-less years ... “the unforgettable experience” was not yet a threateningly literal technological description, but a passionate metaphorical prescription of significance: my first words, my first steps, my first lost tooth, my first time riding a bicycle. 

---




Dear Josh

I think we might know each other from a long way back – back when I was based in Melbourne (I’m now in London, and have been more or less since 2006). 

I imagine it’s still pretty strange in Melbourne at the moment (as it is here) so perhaps this is a particularly bad time for a cold call type email. It’s about an idea for a simple installation (perhaps for the foyer at Dancehouse?). 

I'm putting together a funding proposal to the UK’s Arts and Humanities Research Council for a "Research, Development and Engagement" Fellowship. It's a long process, and I plan to submit the proposal by Feb 2021 and look to start the 18 month project in Feb 2022.

Below is an idea for a simple installation that I thought might interest you and the community at Dancehouse (around late 2022 or early 2023?)

At this stage I'm looking for people, organisations and spaces who are potentially interested in presenting the work. This would involve becoming a project partner for the funding bid. Partnering an AHRC bid needn't be complex (and nor would being involved in the project cost Dancehouse money on top of regular operating budget), but it will involve a bit of initial toing and froing and a reasonably detailed and carefully worded support letter. In terms of timings, I need to get project partners sorted out by the end of this year.

Thanks Josh, and very best wishes.

Simon Ellis

(skellis.net)


----

_the un/knowable body: an exhibition of the ways humans think, feel, and understand the moving body_

The idea is to develop and curate an exhibition comprised of a collection of found/researched printed materials. These materials would contain and present a wide range of ideas, images, histories, knowledges, myths, concepts, understandings and misunderstandings of and about the moving human body.

The form of the exhibition is in part inspired by Olafur Eliasson's _Installation view_ at the "In real life" exhibition at Tate Modern in 2019. Here are two images from that work: <https://www.skellis.net/blog/installation-view>.

The materials in _the un/knowable body_ would be organised or curated so as to provoke surprising connections across the images and texts -- to bring together and expand the certainties and uncertainties of our understanding and experiences of the moving human body.

It's a simple idea, easily installed and presented. But it's also an idea filled with the possibilities, limitations and complexities of how we understand our moving bodies.



contact@igorandmoreno.com


I'm putting together a funding proposal to the Arts and Humanities Research Council for a "Research, Development and Engagement" Fellowship. It's a long process, and I plan to submit the proposal by Feb 2021 and look to start the 18 month project in Feb 2022.

below are a couple of ideas for installations that I thought might interest you for S'ALA. yes or no? do you have a preference?

At this stage I'm looking for people, organisations and spaces who are potentially interested in presenting the work. This would involve becoming a project partner for the funding bid. Partnering an AHRC bid needn't be complex (and nor would it need to cost The Work Room  money on top of regular operating budget), but it will involve a bit of initial toing and froing. In terms of timings, I need to get project partners sorted out by the end of this year.


----

# 1. the un/knowable body: an exhibition of the ways humans think, feel, and understand the moving body

The idea is to develop and curate an exhibition comprised of a collection of found/researched printed materials. These materials would contain and present a wide range of ideas, images, histories, knowledges, myths, concepts, understandings and misunderstandings of and about the moving human body.

The form of the exhibition is in part inspired by Olafur Eliasson's _Installation view_ at the "In real life" exhibition at Tate Modern in 2019. Here are two images from that work: <https://www.skellis.net/blog/installation-view>.

The materials in _the un/knowable body_ would be organised or curated so as to provoke surprising connections across the images and texts -- to bring together and expand the certainties and uncertainties of our understanding and experiences of the moving human body.

It's a simple idea, easily installed and presented. But it's also an idea filled with the possibilities, limitations and complexities of how we understand our moving bodies.

----

# 2. unforgettable

I'm interested in developing and curating an installation comprised of hand-written letters collected from people all around the world. Each of these letters would detail a single unforgettable personal moment or experience of dance -- whether doing, watching or making it.

Here's some background:  

At the beginning of 2020 I read Ed Snowden's autobiography called Permanent Record. Here's something he says about the concept of an unforgettable experience:

>Here’s what strikes me when I think back to my childhood, particularly those first nine Internet-less years: I can’t account for everything that happened back then, because I have only my memory to rely on. The data just doesn’t exist. When I was a child, “the unforgettable experience” was not yet a threateningly literal technological description, but a passionate metaphorical prescription of significance: my first words, my first steps, my first lost tooth, my first time riding a bicycle. (Chapter 1: Looking Through the Window)

In a digital world in which our experiences can no longer be "unforgettable" this project would be entirely analogue: the communications, the paper, the pens, the installation itself. It would be an attempt to catalogue a global community's unforgettable experiences of dance.


# the un/knowable body: an exhibition of the ways humans think, feel, and understand the moving body

I'm putting together a funding proposal to the Arts and Humanities Research Council for a "Research, Development and Engagement" Fellowship. It's a long process, and I plan to submit the proposal by Feb 2021 and look to start the 18 month project in Feb 2022. 

As part of a range of proposed activities for the fellowship, I am looking to develop and curate an exhibition comprised of a collection of found/researched printed materials. These materials would contain and present a wide range of ideas, images, histories, knowledges, myths, concepts, understandings and misunderstandings of and about the moving human body. 

The form of the exhibition is in part inspired by Olafur Eliasson's _Installation view_ at the "In real life" exhibition at Tate Modern in 2019. Here are two images from that work: <https://www.skellis.net/blog/installation-view>.

The materials in _the un/knowable body_ would be organised or curated so as to provoke surprising connections across the images and texts -- to bring together and expand the certainties and uncertainties of our understanding and experiences of the moving human body.

It's a simple idea, easily installed and presented. But it's also an idea filled with the possibilities, limitations and complexities of how we understand our moving bodies. 

At this stage I'm looking for people, organisations and spaces who 
are potentially interested in presenting the work. This would involve becoming a project partner for the funding bid. Partnering an AHRC bid needn't be complex (and nor would it need to cost your organisation money on top of regular operating budget), but it will involve a bit of initial toing and froing. In terms of timings, I need to get project partners sorted out by the end of this year. 



Requirements? -- length of wall? different versions available?  


# unforgettable

wiekeeringa@yorkshiredance.com
Eddie.Nixon@theplace.org.uk
contact@igorandmoreno.com

unforgettable experiences in dance: a project proposal

Dear Wieke

I trust you are keeping well and that Yorkshire Dance is finding a way through these strange and discombobulating CV-19 times.

When we last had a brief email exchange I hinted at a project proposal that I thought might interest you. Here goes ...

I'm putting together a funding proposal to the Arts and Humanities Research Council for a "Research, Development and Engagement" Fellowship. It's a long process, and I plan to submit the proposal by Feb 2021 and look to start the 18 month project in Feb 2022. 

As part of a range of proposed activities for the fellowship, I'm interested in developing and curating an installation comprised of hand-written letters collected from people all around the world. Each of these letters would detail a single unforgettable personal moment or experience of dance -- whether doing, watching or making it.

Here's some background:   

At the beginning of 2020 I read Ed Snowden's autobiography called Permanent Record. Here's something he says about the concept of an unforgettable experience: 

>Here’s what strikes me when I think back to my childhood, particularly those first nine Internet-less years: I can’t account for everything that happened back then, because I have only my memory to rely on. The data just doesn’t exist. When I was a child, “the unforgettable experience” was not yet a threateningly literal technological description, but a passionate metaphorical prescription of significance: my first words, my first steps, my first lost tooth, my first time riding a bicycle. (Chapter 1: Looking Through the Window)

In a digital world in which our experiences can no longer be "unforgettable" this project would be entirely analogue: the communications, the paper, the pens, the installation itself. It would be an attempt to catalogue a global community's unforgettable experiences of dance.

Perhaps the first question is, does this interest you?

If yes, perhaps we can talk about what this might mean for Yorkshire Dance. Partnering an AHRC bid needn't be complex (and nor would it need to cost YD money on top of regular operating budget), but it will involve a bit of toing and froing. In terms of timings, I need to get project partners sorted out by the end of this year. 

Thanks Wieke, and I look forward to your response.

Simon







The fellowship is designed to include a period of research and a strong developmental component. For the research component I plan to look at and practice a number of things to do with what the body "knows" and how those understandings are communicated. The developmental component is focused on communicating
