# head of department statement

I am pleased to provide my full and unreserved support for Dr Simon Ellis’s proposal to the Research, Develop and Engagement Fellowship Scheme. Dr Ellis has taken a leadership role for developing Practice Research in the Centre for Dance Research (C-DaRE), Coventry University, for the last five years, building on three decades of developing his expertise in this field. His leadership has extended to providing expert guidance and support for Practice Research across the arts and humanities within the University. Moreover, he is recognised as a leader in the field of Practice Research both in the UK and internationally, evidenced through invitations to present his work at academic conferences, keynotes, sector-facing events, an extensive range of peer reviewed publications and non-traditional outputs (submitted to the RAE/REF 2008, 2014 and 2021), his contribution to funded research projects, and his development of the next generation and community of scholars through PhD supervision. As such he is identified as a practice-research leader and is one of very few researchers who has the appropriate expertise – straddling academia and practice – to do this project. The Fellowship would be an ideal opportunity for Dr Ellis to expand on his considerable achievements thus far and to develop his capacities for impact and engagement in the field, assisted by a range of support processes within C-DaRE and the University more widely. The project will provide cohesion for Practice Research, for the discipline, practitioners and academics within the academy, whilst building strong footholds in the professional field nationally and internationally. 

The Fellowship would be timely for a number of reasons. The UK is regarded as a leader in the field of Practice Research but so far, the work has been fragmented, poorly documented and often misunderstood. The recent reports published by the Practice Research Advisory Group (PRAG), funded by Research England, provided the opportunity for a detailed examination of the state of Practice Research in the creative arts fields, with a clear message about the work needed to recognise the value of Practice Research within and beyond the arts and humanities, the need for processes to record and widely share Practice Research, and the need for greater public engagement. The Fellowship will enable Dr Ellis, who has already contributed to one of PRAG’s events in 2019, to take Practice Research forward, and act on the recommendations from the reports. Following the Fellowship, he will be ideally placed to contribute to the next phase of PRAG’s work and locally will be given the time and resource to develop a ‘Senior Practice Research Advisor’ role for the University, emphasising the importance of body-based epistemologies in building capability in the PGR and ECR communities. His work developing the Discourse forum as part of the Fellowship will be key to building this capability. He will also be perfectly placed to advise research leaders and repository managers on Practice Research policy, including issues of access (by supporting the development of an Open Library of Practice Research). 

Dr Ellis will be provided with relevant administrative, technical and operational support throughout the Fellowship, and will be funded to attend (and contribute to) national and international colloquia to extend his expertise and profile in the field of Practice Research. He will also be supported to extend his software skills (specifically Adobe After Effects, necessary for producing animations and alternate/non-traditional forms of dissemination), building on a focus on strategies for documenting complex artistic-research processes in clear and accessible ways. Institutional support will be agreed from the outset, with dedicated time identified from the research services support team who service C-DaRE’s research activity through the Institute for Creative Cultures. Dr Ellis will also be able to access the University’s Centre for Research Capability and Development training workshops, as appropriate, to expand and consolidate his knowledge and skills, and to engage with Parliament, policy makers and media. In addition to the Fellowship project’s Advisory Group, C-DaRE will ensure that progress on the Fellowship is included in C-DaRE’s monthly team meetings to ensure support is appropriate and effective, and Dr Ellis can benefit from discussing ideas with experts within a supportive environment.   

Dr Ellis will continue in his membership of C-DaRE’s senior leadership team, contributing to the strategic direction of the Research Centre, and line-managing and mentoring ECRs. He will continue to supervise PhD candidates within his time available, and this will be an opportunity for the work on the Fellowship to feed into his supervision (which includes candidates adopting Practice Research methods) and vice versa, for his supervision to inform his research in the Fellowship. He is currently co-editor on a key artistic-scholarly journal; Choreographic Practices, and anticipates continuing in this role as it will also feed into the Fellowship research. He will be released from other duties and responsibilities in order to focus the time identified on the Fellowship. 

The activity in the Fellowship will enable Dr Ellis to significantly advance and transform the Practice Research community particularly within dance and creative arts, and by extension, other disciplines where Practice Research is a core methodology. At heart is a commitment to collaboration. Project activities are designed to reach out, internationally, to the Practice Research community. Dr Ellis’s programme of activities will not only enable him to provide intellectual leadership in the field of Practice Research but will be of benefit to a wide range of disciplines through the focus on what has thus far been an under-supported area of research, thus extending his reputation and leadership globally. 

I can confirm that Dr Ellis is a research leader in C-DaRE, the Institute for Creative Cultures, and the University. The Fellowship will enable us to develop our partnership with the AHRC by building on our existing productive collaborations (including the Dance Research Matters campaign), whilst also building on the strategic development of research within C-DaRE, on developing the research team more broadly and exploiting more opportunities for knowledge exchange, impact and engagement with the creative and cultural sector. We are fully committed to Dr Ellis’s career and he will be supported by myself and his line-manager to apply for a Professorship in Practice Research.

With kind regards


