introduction-what-why-how.md, before:

# introduction - what why how

An initial stab at understanding the broad nature of the research and leadership components of the bid.

## what 

1. focus on ways of knowing, experimental research
methodologies, epistemologies of the south (de Sousa Santos), and
practice-as-research. (ie it's a project about epistemology). It
will be based on my long-term concern for how PaR has failed to
deal with what I think is an epistemic crisis (that is, we just
make up shit about what it is that we know differently as a
consequence of PaR)

2. use Authentic Movement as a radical case-study for the limits
and possibilities of PaR: produces what are clearly "low
resolution" outcomes (e.g. documentation, writing) for what are
"high resolution" experiences for participants -- this is a very
typical problem for any PaR

3. in such a situation, what – if anything – can we say about
the practices (or can we understand differently) without depending
on other methodological interventions or systems (e.g. psych or
sociological research, ethnographic inquiry)?

4. leadership thinking based on philosophy of sustainability.
Some key principles:

    a) thinking of leadership as “collective organising”
(Bendell 2019). Need to “drop dominant stories about individual
agency and human potency” and rather embrace leadership that is
“fluid and humble” (Bendell 2019).

    b) bid is not based on a kind of leadership that
“assumes that change relies on the power of a significant
individual at the top of a hierarchy” (Bendell 2019).

    c) That leadership is a word "to describe significant
actions enabling change that is welcomed by affected people. Such
actions do not have to be those of a person of significance or
authority. Anyone can step up to act in ways that enable change. In
addition, we can be clearer about the kinds of actions that are
useful to describe as “leadership” rather than something else, like
“management” or “organising”. Leadership actions are those that
help shift the way groups, networks or whole communities of people
relate and so such actions generate effects over time." (Bendell
2019)

5. Based on Bendell's thinking there are several questions that
I need to address in building the bid:

- what kinds of actions?
- who are the ‘affected people’ in this context?
- who are the groups, networks or whole communities of people?
- what kinds of effects over time?


## why 


## how

Commit message:

adding what kind of leader am I

introduction-what-why-how.md, after:

# introduction - what why how

An initial stab at understanding the broad nature of the research and leadership components of the bid.

## what 

1. focus on ways of knowing, experimental research
methodologies, epistemologies of the south (de Sousa Santos), and
practice-as-research. (ie it's a project about epistemology). It
will be based on my long-term concern for how PaR has failed to
deal with what I think is an epistemic crisis (that is, we just
make up shit about what it is that we know differently as a
consequence of PaR)

2. use Authentic Movement as a radical case-study for the limits
and possibilities of PaR: produces what are clearly "low
resolution" outcomes (e.g. documentation, writing) for what are
"high resolution" experiences for participants -- this is a very
typical problem for any PaR

3. in such a situation, what – if anything – can we say about
the practices (or can we understand differently) without depending
on other methodological interventions or systems (e.g. psych or
sociological research, ethnographic inquiry)?

4. leadership thinking based on philosophy of sustainability.
Some key principles:

    a) thinking of leadership as “collective organising”
(Bendell 2019). Need to “drop dominant stories about individual
agency and human potency” and rather embrace leadership that is
“fluid and humble” (Bendell 2019).

    b) bid is not based on a kind of leadership that
“assumes that change relies on the power of a significant
individual at the top of a hierarchy” (Bendell 2019).

    c) That leadership is a word "to describe significant
actions enabling change that is welcomed by affected people. Such
actions do not have to be those of a person of significance or
authority. Anyone can step up to act in ways that enable change. In
addition, we can be clearer about the kinds of actions that are
useful to describe as “leadership” rather than something else, like
“management” or “organising”. Leadership actions are those that
help shift the way groups, networks or whole communities of people
relate and so such actions generate effects over time." (Bendell
2019)

5. Based on Bendell's thinking there are several questions that
I need to address in building the bid:

- what kinds of actions?
- who are the ‘affected people’ in this context?
- who are the groups, networks or whole communities of people?
- what kinds of effects over time?

What kind of leader am I?
What kind of leader do I want to be?

## why 


## how
