jes-application-details.md, before:

# Project details #

### Title of Proposed Research (150 xters)

Finger pointing moon: the limits of practice-research

### Start Date and Duration 

5 September 2022
18 months

### Objectives [up to 4000 chars] ###

>The objectives of the proposed project should be listed in order of priority and should be those that the applicant would wish the Council to use as the basis for evaluation of work upon completion of any grant awarded.

1. Develop and publish eleven outputs based on the research and development components of _Finger Pointing Moon_;
2. Create experimental fieldwork conditions by which to articulate clear limitations of practice-research, and creatively document these conditions and findings;
3. Establish, develop and support a vibrant community of artist-scholars that are able to discuss and share their work across disciplines;
4. Develop and engage diverse audiences through a range of communication, impact and public engagement strategies that become sites for inspiration and learning;
5. Work closely with project partners to build and sustain collaborations that traverse divisions between academic and professional practices;
6. Centre the body as a means to understand the artistic-scholarly limits of practice-research;
7. Deploy practice-research as a direct means to generate theoretical perspectives on practice-research methodologies


### Summary [up to 4000 chars] 

The professionalisation of the arts in the Academy over the last 30 years has led to the development and growth of a hybrid research approach called practice-research. This collection of methods is based on the traditional art-making strategies of artists, and attempts to honour the exploratory nature of these practices while addressing the scholarly conventions of traditional research. 

_Finger Pointing Moon_ is a research, development and engagement fellowship that broadly explores how body-based practice-research contributes to knowledge production in the Academy, and how those understandings are communicated productively to the wider public. 

The fellowship has a research component and a development component. The research component aims to address a fundamental and contested question in artistic practice-research: What is known or understood differently when using practice-research methods? The Principal Investigator and two experts (Joanne 'Bob' Whalley and Roger Kneebone) will use studio-based fieldwork -- specifically an experimental body-based movement practice called _authentic movement_ -- as an empirical approach to practice-research, and build on this with desk-based research to generate theoretical perspectives on the limits and possibilities of the role practice-research is able to play in the broader academic research ecosystem.

The research will benefit artist-scholars across the arts and humanities by attempting to develop a relatively unambiguous examination of the claims that practice-researchers are able to make of their work specifically, and through artistic processes of experimentation more generally. We will engage these people working at the intersection of professional arts and the Academy through a number of public engagement processes, and via an openly accessible online Discourse forum that will run throughout the project timeline and beyond.

The development component of the fellowship focuses on helping the PI acquire four new capabilities: 1) communicate the relevance of niche ideas in practice-research to the wider public; 2) demonstrate leadership in practice-research; 3) develop a broad community of artist-scholars; 4) create collaborations with academic and non-academic stake-holders. The PI will collaborate with project partners in the UK, Italy and Australia: Dancehouse (Australia), S'ALA (Italy) and Siobhan Davies Dance (UK). The partners and research team will explore diverse ways to engage non-academic audiences about the importance of grappling with questions of epistemology, and how arts practices might play a key role in these conversations. In other words, the question "How do we know that we know what we know?" is more than an intellectual or academic problem, but rather has never been more vital in our post-truth filter-bubbled world in which the radically analogue sensations of the human body are at odds with the seemingly unstoppable datafication of human experience.

The development and research components of the fellowship will benefit public stakeholders in the arts who are curious about the ways artistic-scholarly research extends into public discourse. These will be audiences and organisations identified with the support of project partners. The public exhibitions and podcast series are designed to impact arts and 'arts-adjacent' audiences. These diverse audiences will be involved through public engagement events developed with the project partners: online conversations, public discourse and experimental curational strategies that involve artists and other beneficiaries local to the project partners.  

Although the fellowship addresses what appears to be a niche concern -- the epistemic limits and potential of artistic practice-research -- the diverse outputs proposed in both the research and development components of the project will reveal how experiencing and understanding epistemic limits are a fundamental part of being human.

>Describe the proposed research in simple terms in a way that could be publicised to a general audience. Note that this summary may be published on the AHRC's website in the event that a grant is awarded. You should also summarise how the research will be beneficial to users who are within and beyond the academic research community, and how you intend on engaging with them. Following the removal of the distinct Pathways to Impact attachment applicants will be expected to show how the research provides impact throughout the application, and especially within the Case for Support.

>Note: This Summary will be published on publicly available sites should the project be funded. Please ensure confidential information is not included in this Summary.

>The Council has a responsibility to promote the public awareness and understanding of its research areas. The purpose of the Summary is to help publicise the Council's research programme to:

>- Opinion-formers and policy makers;
>- The general public; and
>- The wider research community.

>The summary should be written in a style that is accessible to a variety of readers, including the general public. 

>The summary may cover, for example:

>- The principal subject of the research;
>- The key aims;
>- Where and how the research would be undertaken;
>- Who else would be involved


### Ethical implications

There are no major ethical implications arising from the proposed research activities. Although the two experts involved in the practice-based fieldwork are considered research colleagues rather than participants, they will still be asked to give informed consent (based on right to withdraw and anonymity if and when possible). Workshop participants (in Australia, UK and Italy) will likewise be asked for informed consent. Their participation will be voluntary and conditions of anonymity will be maintained. Participants from around the world who submit written 'memories' towards Output 3 _Un/forgettable_ will understand that they are contributing to a curated exhibition. Their involvement will be entirely voluntary and anonymous. 

The project partners work with diverse communities and the workshops and public engagement events developed through these collaborations will be openly accessible to their audiences and communities (both in person and online).

Coventry University has a policy on good conduct in line with the requirements of the AHRC: [https://www.coventry.ac.uk/research/about-us/research-ethics/](https://www.coventry.ac.uk/research/about-us/research-ethics/).


>AHRC - Specific Requirements

>Please indicate whether there are any ethical implications arising from the proposed research activities.  For example, does the research involve human participants?  Does it require travel to countries where the safety of project participants might be in jeopardy? Could the research result in damage to the natural environment?  If the project involves public engagement in the research, has consideration been given to ensuring appropriate equality and diversity of engagement?

>If there are ethical implications, you should give brief details of what they are and how you intend to address them.



### Academic Beneficiaries [4000 xters] ###

_Describe who will benefit from the research_

>The Academic Beneficiaries section asks you to summarise how your research will benefit other researchers in your field and – where relevant – academic beneficiaries in other disciplines. Academic communication and dissemination plans should be elaborated further in your Case for Support. Academic Beneficiaries is a section to complete within the proposal form. (p.58 guide)

>Please summarise how your proposed research will contribute to knowledge, both within the UK and globally.

>Academic Beneficiaries (4000 characters max) should address the following questions:

>- How the research will benefit other researchers in the field
>- Identify whether there are any academic beneficiaries in other disciplines and, if so, how they will benefit and what will be done to ensure that they benefit
>- What other researchers, both within the UK and elsewhere are likely to be interested in or to benefit from the proposed research.

>Please look broadly beyond narrow research field. UKRI recognises that in generating new knowledge, a cross-disciplinary or single-disciplinary approach may be the most appropriate. Applicants are asked to clearly state their chosen approach and provide justification for that choice.

>List any academic beneficiaries from the research and give details of how they will benefit and how the results of the proposed research will be disseminated. Specific beneficiaries might be:

>- Researchers in the investigator’s immediate professional circle, carrying out similar or related research
>- Researchers in other disciplines
>- Researchers in other academic institutions (in the UK and/or international)

>Also describe the relevance of the research to beneficiaries:

>- Identify the potential academic impact of the proposed work
>- Show how the research will benefit other researchers (this might include methodological or theoretical advances)
>- Identify whether the research will produce data or materials of benefit to other researchers, and explain how these will be stored, maintained and made available
>- Explain any collaboration with other researchers and their role in the project

>Note: The Academic Beneficiaries section may be published to demonstrate the impact of Research Council funded research.  Please ensure confidential information is not included in this section.

- Researchers across the arts and humanities investigating the epistemic underpinnings of practice-research. The project will collect, localise and openly share and analyse current research to improve awareness of epistemic limitations and possibilities of practice-research [Outputs 1,2,5,6,7,9,10,11].
- Artist-scholars using practice-research as a form of knowledge production. They will benefit through enhanced language and clarity around epistemic boundaries of practice-research, increased understanding of the role of proxies in research dissemination, and strengthened culture of sharing research by non-traditional means [Outputs 1,2,5,6,7,9,10,11].
- Qualitative researchers (social sciences, arts and humanities), epistemologists, scholars exploring experimental research methods. They will benefit through theoretical advancements in epistemic edge-cases or situations that fit poorly with conventional knowledge production [Outputs 2,5,6] 
- Scholars and research centres across disciplines exploring alternative methods of public engagement and dissemination. They will benefit reflexively by being part of a community that will self-generate dissemination and engagement possibilities [Outputs 9,10], and by increased awareness of strategies to engage different publics with niche research outcomes [Outputs 3,4,7,8].
- Scholars working with body-based and somatic processes as research. This is the community closest to the current expertise of the PI. Potential impacts will be traditional and non-traditional creative outputs that drive new ways to delimit or clarify the research potential of complex somatic processes [Outputs 1,2,5,6,7,9,11]
- PhD students and early-career artist-researchers will benefit from open access to a public forum that involves a wide range of international peers and experienced artist-scholars who are working through similar areas and methods. The potential impacts will be an enhanced sense of community, and increased sharing of understanding and experience on practice-research methodologies, questions and resources [Outputs 9,10].


### Project partners

>If appropriate, the project may be delivered in collaboration with one or more non-academic partner organisations. Both UK and International organisations are eligible and must be existing organisations, although there is no minimum period stipulated for which they must have been operating. When collaborating with international partners you must demonstrate that the UK research is at the international leading edge. (p.59)


>Project Partners

>Details should be given of project partners and their contributions. An organisation should only be named as a project partner if it is providing specific contributions (either direct or indirect) to the research project.

>Research Councils will pay Research Councils' % contribution of the total costs of the project excluding the project partner contribution. Project partner contributions in cash or in-kind should be seen as additional to the Research Councils' % contribution and are not considered part of the fEC of the project. BBSRC operates an exception for Industrial Partnership Awards (see BBSRC Research Grants Guide for details).

Attach a letter to the proposal (attachment type "letter of support") from each partner.

The content of the letter should:

- Confirm commitment to the proposed project;
- Clearly explain the value, relevance and possible benefits of the work to the project partner;
- Give the nature and equivalent value of any in-kind contribution, and/or declare the value of a cash contribution, and period of support; and
- Describe the added value to the project of the project partner’s involvement.

The letter should be dated and should be written when the proposal is being prepared. The letter should be targeted specifically to the project. A standard letter declaring support for the proposed work is not helpful.

Name of partner organisation: If the organisation is a wholly owned subsidiary, enter the parent company.

Division/Department: Enter if applicable.

Address Details: These will be automatically entered after selecting an organisation.

Commit message:

add new line re academic beneficiaries (HEI leaders)

jes-application-details.md, after:

# Project details #

### Title of Proposed Research (150 xters)

Finger pointing moon: the limits of practice-research

### Start Date and Duration 

5 September 2022
18 months

### Objectives [up to 4000 chars] ###

>The objectives of the proposed project should be listed in order of priority and should be those that the applicant would wish the Council to use as the basis for evaluation of work upon completion of any grant awarded.

1. Develop and publish eleven outputs based on the research and development components of _Finger Pointing Moon_;
2. Create experimental fieldwork conditions by which to articulate clear limitations of practice-research, and creatively document these conditions and findings;
3. Establish, develop and support a vibrant community of artist-scholars that are able to discuss and share their work across disciplines;
4. Develop and engage diverse audiences through a range of communication, impact and public engagement strategies that become sites for inspiration and learning;
5. Work closely with project partners to build and sustain collaborations that traverse divisions between academic and professional practices;
6. Centre the body as a means to understand the artistic-scholarly limits of practice-research;
7. Deploy practice-research as a direct means to generate theoretical perspectives on practice-research methodologies


### Summary [up to 4000 chars] 

The professionalisation of the arts in the Academy over the last 30 years has led to the development and growth of a hybrid research approach called practice-research. This collection of methods is based on the traditional art-making strategies of artists, and attempts to honour the exploratory nature of these practices while addressing the scholarly conventions of traditional research. 

_Finger Pointing Moon_ is a research, development and engagement fellowship that broadly explores how body-based practice-research contributes to knowledge production in the Academy, and how those understandings are communicated productively to the wider public. 

The fellowship has a research component and a development component. The research component aims to address a fundamental and contested question in artistic practice-research: What is known or understood differently when using practice-research methods? The Principal Investigator and two experts (Joanne 'Bob' Whalley and Roger Kneebone) will use studio-based fieldwork -- specifically an experimental body-based movement practice called _authentic movement_ -- as an empirical approach to practice-research, and build on this with desk-based research to generate theoretical perspectives on the limits and possibilities of the role practice-research is able to play in the broader academic research ecosystem.

The research will benefit artist-scholars across the arts and humanities by attempting to develop a relatively unambiguous examination of the claims that practice-researchers are able to make of their work specifically, and through artistic processes of experimentation more generally. We will engage these people working at the intersection of professional arts and the Academy through a number of public engagement processes, and via an openly accessible online Discourse forum that will run throughout the project timeline and beyond.

The development component of the fellowship focuses on helping the PI acquire four new capabilities: 1) communicate the relevance of niche ideas in practice-research to the wider public; 2) demonstrate leadership in practice-research; 3) develop a broad community of artist-scholars; 4) create collaborations with academic and non-academic stake-holders. The PI will collaborate with project partners in the UK, Italy and Australia: Dancehouse (Australia), S'ALA (Italy) and Siobhan Davies Dance (UK). The partners and research team will explore diverse ways to engage non-academic audiences about the importance of grappling with questions of epistemology, and how arts practices might play a key role in these conversations. In other words, the question "How do we know that we know what we know?" is more than an intellectual or academic problem, but rather has never been more vital in our post-truth filter-bubbled world in which the radically analogue sensations of the human body are at odds with the seemingly unstoppable datafication of human experience.

The development and research components of the fellowship will benefit public stakeholders in the arts who are curious about the ways artistic-scholarly research extends into public discourse. These will be audiences and organisations identified with the support of project partners. The public exhibitions and podcast series are designed to impact arts and 'arts-adjacent' audiences. These diverse audiences will be involved through public engagement events developed with the project partners: online conversations, public discourse and experimental curational strategies that involve artists and other beneficiaries local to the project partners.  

Although the fellowship addresses what appears to be a niche concern -- the epistemic limits and potential of artistic practice-research -- the diverse outputs proposed in both the research and development components of the project will reveal how experiencing and understanding epistemic limits are a fundamental part of being human.

>Describe the proposed research in simple terms in a way that could be publicised to a general audience. Note that this summary may be published on the AHRC's website in the event that a grant is awarded. You should also summarise how the research will be beneficial to users who are within and beyond the academic research community, and how you intend on engaging with them. Following the removal of the distinct Pathways to Impact attachment applicants will be expected to show how the research provides impact throughout the application, and especially within the Case for Support.

>Note: This Summary will be published on publicly available sites should the project be funded. Please ensure confidential information is not included in this Summary.

>The Council has a responsibility to promote the public awareness and understanding of its research areas. The purpose of the Summary is to help publicise the Council's research programme to:

>- Opinion-formers and policy makers;
>- The general public; and
>- The wider research community.

>The summary should be written in a style that is accessible to a variety of readers, including the general public. 

>The summary may cover, for example:

>- The principal subject of the research;
>- The key aims;
>- Where and how the research would be undertaken;
>- Who else would be involved


### Ethical implications

There are no major ethical implications arising from the proposed research activities. Although the two experts involved in the practice-based fieldwork are considered research colleagues rather than participants, they will still be asked to give informed consent (based on right to withdraw and anonymity if and when possible). Workshop participants (in Australia, UK and Italy) will likewise be asked for informed consent. Their participation will be voluntary and conditions of anonymity will be maintained. Participants from around the world who submit written 'memories' towards Output 3 _Un/forgettable_ will understand that they are contributing to a curated exhibition. Their involvement will be entirely voluntary and anonymous. 

The project partners work with diverse communities and the workshops and public engagement events developed through these collaborations will be openly accessible to their audiences and communities (both in person and online).

Coventry University has a policy on good conduct in line with the requirements of the AHRC: [https://www.coventry.ac.uk/research/about-us/research-ethics/](https://www.coventry.ac.uk/research/about-us/research-ethics/).


>AHRC - Specific Requirements

>Please indicate whether there are any ethical implications arising from the proposed research activities.  For example, does the research involve human participants?  Does it require travel to countries where the safety of project participants might be in jeopardy? Could the research result in damage to the natural environment?  If the project involves public engagement in the research, has consideration been given to ensuring appropriate equality and diversity of engagement?

>If there are ethical implications, you should give brief details of what they are and how you intend to address them.



### Academic Beneficiaries [4000 xters] ###

_Describe who will benefit from the research_

>The Academic Beneficiaries section asks you to summarise how your research will benefit other researchers in your field and – where relevant – academic beneficiaries in other disciplines. Academic communication and dissemination plans should be elaborated further in your Case for Support. Academic Beneficiaries is a section to complete within the proposal form. (p.58 guide)

>Please summarise how your proposed research will contribute to knowledge, both within the UK and globally.

>Academic Beneficiaries (4000 characters max) should address the following questions:

>- How the research will benefit other researchers in the field
>- Identify whether there are any academic beneficiaries in other disciplines and, if so, how they will benefit and what will be done to ensure that they benefit
>- What other researchers, both within the UK and elsewhere are likely to be interested in or to benefit from the proposed research.

>Please look broadly beyond narrow research field. UKRI recognises that in generating new knowledge, a cross-disciplinary or single-disciplinary approach may be the most appropriate. Applicants are asked to clearly state their chosen approach and provide justification for that choice.

>List any academic beneficiaries from the research and give details of how they will benefit and how the results of the proposed research will be disseminated. Specific beneficiaries might be:

>- Researchers in the investigator’s immediate professional circle, carrying out similar or related research
>- Researchers in other disciplines
>- Researchers in other academic institutions (in the UK and/or international)

>Also describe the relevance of the research to beneficiaries:

>- Identify the potential academic impact of the proposed work
>- Show how the research will benefit other researchers (this might include methodological or theoretical advances)
>- Identify whether the research will produce data or materials of benefit to other researchers, and explain how these will be stored, maintained and made available
>- Explain any collaboration with other researchers and their role in the project

>Note: The Academic Beneficiaries section may be published to demonstrate the impact of Research Council funded research.  Please ensure confidential information is not included in this section.

- Researchers across the arts and humanities investigating the epistemic underpinnings of practice-research. The project will collect, localise and openly share and analyse current research to improve awareness of epistemic limitations and possibilities of practice-research [Outputs 1,2,5,6,7,9,10,11].
- Artist-scholars in different disciplines using practice-research as a form of knowledge production. They will benefit through enhanced language and clarity around epistemic boundaries of practice-research, increased understanding of the role of proxies in research dissemination, and strengthened culture of sharing research by non-traditional means [Outputs 1,2,5,6,7,9,10,11].
- Qualitative researchers (social sciences, arts and humanities), epistemologists, scholars exploring experimental research methods. They will benefit through theoretical advancements in epistemic edge-cases or situations that fit poorly with conventional knowledge production [Outputs 2,5,6] 
- Scholars and research centres across disciplines exploring alternative methods of public engagement and dissemination. They will benefit reflexively by being part of a community that will self-generate dissemination and engagement possibilities [Outputs 9,10], and by increased awareness of strategies to engage different publics with niche research outcomes [Outputs 3,4,7,8].
- Scholars working with body-based and somatic processes as research. This is the community closest to the current expertise of the PI. Potential impacts will be traditional and non-traditional creative outputs that drive new ways to delimit or clarify the research potential of complex somatic processes [Outputs 1,2,5,6,7,9,11]
- PhD students and early-career artist-researchers will benefit from open access to a public forum that involves a wide range of international peers and experienced artist-scholars who are working through similar areas and methods. The potential impacts will be an enhanced sense of community, and increased sharing of understanding and experience on practice-research methodologies, questions and resources [Outputs 9,10].
- Academic leaders in higher education institutions nationally and internationally will benefit from access to project resources and outcomes [Outputs 1, 7,8,9,10,11] that will acknowledge and present the epistemic complexities of practice-research in accessible and effective ways. This impact addresses the PRAG-UK reports published in 2021 that identify the lack of understanding about practice-research in academic leadership roles (https://doi.org/10.23636/1347, p.37).

### Project partners

>If appropriate, the project may be delivered in collaboration with one or more non-academic partner organisations. Both UK and International organisations are eligible and must be existing organisations, although there is no minimum period stipulated for which they must have been operating. When collaborating with international partners you must demonstrate that the UK research is at the international leading edge. (p.59)


>Project Partners

>Details should be given of project partners and their contributions. An organisation should only be named as a project partner if it is providing specific contributions (either direct or indirect) to the research project.

>Research Councils will pay Research Councils' % contribution of the total costs of the project excluding the project partner contribution. Project partner contributions in cash or in-kind should be seen as additional to the Research Councils' % contribution and are not considered part of the fEC of the project. BBSRC operates an exception for Industrial Partnership Awards (see BBSRC Research Grants Guide for details).

Attach a letter to the proposal (attachment type "letter of support") from each partner.

The content of the letter should:

- Confirm commitment to the proposed project;
- Clearly explain the value, relevance and possible benefits of the work to the project partner;
- Give the nature and equivalent value of any in-kind contribution, and/or declare the value of a cash contribution, and period of support; and
- Describe the added value to the project of the project partner’s involvement.

The letter should be dated and should be written when the proposal is being prepared. The letter should be targeted specifically to the project. A standard letter declaring support for the proposed work is not helpful.

Name of partner organisation: If the organisation is a wholly owned subsidiary, enter the parent company.

Division/Department: Enter if applicable.

Address Details: These will be automatically entered after selecting an organisation.
