# Justification of Resources: Finger Pointing Moon

>This statement should be used to justify the resources required to undertake the research project. You should:
• explain why the indicated resources are needed, taking account of the nature and complexity of the research proposed. Note that it is not sufficient merely to list what is required
• have regard for the breakdown of resources into the summary fund headings Directly Incurred, Directly Allocated and (where appropriate) Exceptions
• in some cases, such as investigator time, use of internal facilities and shared staff costs (all likely to be Directly Allocated costs), the basis of the costing need not be justified, but the need for the resources does need justification
• try to be explicit about the need for the level of investigator time sought, bearing in mind the complexity of the research, the need to manage the project and supervise staff and any wider considerations such as collaboration, research communication or facilities usage
• not justify estates and indirect costs
• include a clear and detailed justification for both why items expected to be found in a department (if sought) are required for the project and why they cannot be provided from the RO’s own resources (including funding from Indirect costs).
In drafting the Justification of Resources, you should ensure you identify which headings in the Summary of Resources the costs relate to, in order to make cross-referencing more transparent.
The attachment should be up to 2 sides of A4. Naming convention: [PI Surname]_JoR

_Finger Pointing Moon_ is planned to maximise public engagement, accessibility and the PI's research and developmental goals in a cost effective and environmentally sensitive manner. This has involved minimising travel costs (particularly international travel -- there are no flights in the project), and planning outputs such as the exhibitions that are easily transported and installed by local partners. Where possible, the project has also been planned to involve online meetings and openly accessible conversations (e.g. micro-conferences).

## Directly incurred staff

The level of the work warrants the support of two 0.5FTE, Grade 7.35 Research Associates (RA1/RA2) for the duration of the project. Senior RAs are requested as they will need strong backgrounds in scholarly writing, communications, impact, and online content management. The RAs will be responsible for organising impact events, the research and production of the workbook for artists and practitioners (with PI support), and communications.

## Directly incurred travel and subsistence

Screen Bodies is an international research project: the PI Ellis is based in Coventry, Co-I Bench in Ohio, and Co-I Rogers in London. The artist-researchers (ARs) are in Glasgow (Love), Inverness (McPherson), and London (Cash), and the audio-visual assistant (AVA: Bennett) is in Kent. Resources are required for the entire project team to meet and discuss ideas through three project advisor meetings and think-tanks lasting for 3 days. Rail fare is requested for Co-I Rogers, 3 x ARs, and AVA (£500 x 3, total £1500), and the 2 project advisors (2 people x £200 x 3, total £1200) to travel to Coventry as well as flights for International Co-I Bench (3 x £1000) to take part. Accommodation for these meetings is requested for 8 people (£100 per night x 3 nights x 3 meetings x 8 people, total £7200) and subsistence is also requested (£25 per person per day x 3 days x 3 meetings x 8 people, total £1800)

We will hold two, two day symposia (Coventry 1 and Columbus, Ohio 2) that are the key intellectual and community meetings to debate and share the scholarly work of the project. For Symposium 1 in Coventry, flights for Co-I Bench (£1000) and rail fare for the Co-I Rogers, and 3 x ARs (£400) is requested. Accommodation for 5 people for 2 nights (£1000) and subsistence at £25 per person per day is requested (£250). For Symposium 2 in Ohio (with in-kind hosting by OSU) flights for the PI, Co-I Rogers, and RA1 (3 x £1000, total £3000) are requested. Accommodation for 3 people for 2 nights (£600) and subsistence for 3 people for 2 days (£150) is requested. 

The three practice-as-research periods (Approach 1 of the research method) require support for the PI, RA2, and AVA to travel to meet with the ARs, and for the PI, Co-I Rogers, ARs, and AVA to start the process in the same location. Period 1 travel (5 people x £82, total £410), accommodation (5 people x 6 days x £100, total £3000) and subsistence (5 people x 6 days x £25, total £750) is requested for 5 people – Co-I Rogers, 3 x ARs, and AVA – for studio-based collaboration for 6 days. Periods 2+3 travel (3 people x 6 trips x £77, total £1386), accommodation (3 people x £100 x 4 days x 6 trips, total £7200) and subsistence (3 people x £25 x 4 days x 6 trips, total £1800) is requested for 6 trips of 4 days for the PI, RA1, and AVA to lead and document the practice-as-research.

The interviews with key people (Approach 2 of the research method) require the PI and AVA to travel around the UK so rail fare is requested (average £45 per person per trip x 20 trips x 2 people, total £1800) and subsistence (£10 x 20 trips x 2 people, total £400)
Attendance at 4 exhibitions in the UK and Ireland (note that the 5th exhibition at Ohio State is built into the symposium travel and subsistence costs) are a significant opportunity to communicate the key artistic-scholarly findings of the research. Seven people will attend including PI, Co-I Rogers, RA1, 3 ARs, and AVA. Rail fare (4 x average price of £125 x 7 people, total £3500), accommodation (4 x 2 nights x £100 per night x 7 people attending, total £5600) and subsistence (4 x £25 x 7 people x 2 days, total £1400) is requested.

The PI and RA1 will undertake impact interviews and meetings with students and staff at Roehampton Dance to discuss the impact of the project’s workbook for artists and practitioners. Travel (2 people x £50 x 4 trips, total £400) and subsistence (2 people x £15 x 4 trips, total £120) is requested for two team members for 4 trips. Travel (3 people x 5 trips x £90, total £1350), accommodation (3 people x 5 trips x 1.75 nights x £100, total £2625) and subsistence (3 people x 5 trips x 1.75 days x £25, total £656) are requested for the team to hold 5 public workshops (PI, Co-I, and ARs) in Leeds, Glasgow, Limerick, and London (x2). Two interdisciplinary meetings in London (PI, 2 x ARs, RA2) will be undertaken to generate dialogues between dance and human-computer interactions practitioners. We request travel (4 people x 2 trips x £90, total £720), accommodation (2 people x 2 trips x £100, total £400) and subsistence (2 people x 2 trips x £25, total £100) for non-London based members of the team. The public event at the British Library (PI, AR1, AR2, RA1, RA2) is an important opportunity to engage with the public (see pathway to impact). We request travel for non-London team members (5 people x 1 trip x average £90, total £450), accommodation (2 people x 1 trip x £100, total £200), and subsistence (2 people x 1 trip x £25, total £50). The workshops, interdisciplinary meetings, and British Library event are key opportunities to share and critique project findings, question cross-disciplinary research tools and methods, and to engage with the public. 

## Directly incurred other costs

Screen Bodies is underpinned by practice-as-research and for this reason there are three artist-researchers (consultants) who are involved to support the PI to develop three distinct artistic-scholarly screendance outcomes for screen. These are Lucy Cash, Katrina McPherson, and Shelly Love – all highly experienced screendance practitioners – and they will each be paid 10 weeks at £1000 per week (total £30000). The volume of audio-visual work also warrants an audio-visual assistant (consultant), Stacie Bennett, who will be responsible for supporting the PI during the practice-as-research and data collection (interview) phases. She is herself an experienced researcher-filmmaker and will be responsible for recording, logging, and maintaining the large quantity of video data. She will be paid £14000 (70 days at £200 per day). 

Specialist software – Audio hijack (£40) Skype recorder (£50) for audio and video recording, Vimeo+ account (10 yrs = £500) and Flickr Pro account (10 yrs = £180) for video and audio streaming and access – is required for face to face and online interviews and Open Access to video and images. Specialist hardware is required for developing the audio-visual parts of the project. Three cameras – a Canon XF305 video camera (£3000), Canon DSLR camera 5D Mark IV (£3500), and GoPro 5 – and accessories (£800) are requested, and high-fidelity audio equipment will be used by the PI, AV assistant, and artist-researchers to produce the screendance outcomes through practice-as-research, visual essay, and interviews, and to document key processes. Accessories are: 2 Canon lenses for macro and zoom work (£1,500), Canon batteries and adaptors (£250), 2 tripods (£400), a H5 zoom audio recorder and accessories (£400), digital media (class 10 SD cards 32GB, £800), a podcast microphone (£150) and carrying cases for kit (£600). Also a Sennheiser shotgun microphone (£600), a Sennheiser wireless lapel mic (£600) and 2 x Sennheiser headphones (£300) are requested. LaCie hard drives (LaCie 2big 12 TB external hard drives x 2 (£1800) and LaCie Rugged Mini 4TB USB 3.0 bus-powered external hard drives x 5 (£1500) will be used for data handling and storage (see Technical Plan).

Materials for the 3 practice-as-research processes (£6000) have been allocated to enable the PI and ARs to innovate with digital and analogue materials in their processes. Each of the three processes will also be supported by a basic film crew (consultants) (3 x £5000, total £15000), for a director of photography, light, set design, editor, sound recordist/design, and performers. This will ensure the practice-as-research outcomes are of the highest quality. These processes will also require unique spaces for filming (allocated at £400 per week for 8 weeks, total £3200). The four UK/Ireland exhibitions require technical support for installation and screening (£4000). 

Catering costs are requested for the interdisciplinary meetings (2 meetings x 20 people x £15 per person, £600), British Library impact event (60 people x £15 per person, £900), and for Symposium 1 at Coventry University (2 days x 40 people x £15 per person, £1200). Publicity printing (£500) and design work for the exhibitions and public outcomes (£1000) are requested to help communicate the research findings to the wider public. Interview transcriptions (150 hours at £25/hr, £3750) are required for the key interviews, interdisciplinary meetings, cross-disciplinary exchanges, and impact interviews. The transcriptions will facilitate analysis and dissemination.

## Directly allocated costs investigators

The PI Ellis (0.4FTE) will lead the project by managing the team and liaising closely with project partners. He will provide support to the RAs, Co-Is, AV assistant and the ARs, and will be responsible for the artistic-scholarly outcomes, develop the public-facing components, and project impact. The Co-I Rogers (0.1FTE) will develop the project’s interdisciplinary dialogues, research interviews and analysis, and Open Access publication for a general audience. The production of scholarly papers, workbook, and articles will be undertaken jointly by the PI and the Co-Is, with support from the RAs. 

### Notes 




