list of outputs.md, before:


# list of outputs

- split between research activities (outputs) and developmental ones, and the possibility of managing this throughout the 18 months

_problems:_

_1. proxies_

- OUTPUT 1: journal article on proxies [1] RES

_2. limits_

- OUTPUT 2: authentic movement: speculative and/or experimental documentation practices through writing and still and moving images [2] RES
- OUTPUT 3: third-person scholarly article [2] about epistemic limits - in collaboration with philosopher Katherine Hawley? Anna Pakes? Anthropologist? or Alva Noe? or Tim Ingold or Guy Claxton or Adriana Cavarero) [2] RES
- OUTPUT 4: _Unforgettable_ exhibition [2] DEV
- OUTPUT 5: _The Un/knowable Body_ exhibition [2] DEV

_3. hyper-specificity_

- OUTPUT 6: lexicon of epistemological "findings and failures" [3] RES
    + like the emotion wheel
    + lexicon: "the vocabulary of a person, language, or branch of knowledge"

_4. W = whole project_

- these outputs should address (in some form) the overall aim. Can this aim allude to key aspect of communications or is that separate to the 'research'?

- OUTPUT 7: video essay: collates and articulates key concerns/findings of project [W] RES
- OUTPUT 8: 8-10 podcasts (transcribed) [W] DEV
    + Vida Midgelow
    + Paul Magee
    + Harmony Bench (scepticism)
    + Rachel Hann
    + Henk Borgdorff
    + Erik Knudsen
    + Finland? Sweden? Canada? 
    + Singapore
    + Katherine Hawley?
    + look at PRAG group?
    + interviews with wider public (e.g. Jo Fidgen, Lupe, ) - is she worth asking about possible communications thinking? ask to read a short document outlining finger pointing moon project (the concept).
    + School of Life? 
    + LessWrong? 

- OUTPUT 9: discourse forum: a site for students, potential students, artist-researchers, other disciplines; create with group of people from around the world: look to get 50-100 active users in first year [W] DEV
    + plan for maintenance and sustainability
- OUTPUT 10: 5 curated talks online (micro-conferences) [W - but curated towards each of 3 problems] DEV
    + e.g. [lesswrong.com/posts/9m9SniwdKsKyfjrMw/inviting-curated-authors-to-give-5-min-online-talks](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/9m9SniwdKsKyfjrMw/inviting-curated-authors-to-give-5-min-online-talks)
    + these could be held by people who have contributed to the project blog or the podcasts? 
- OUTPUT 11: article for The Conversation [W] RES / DEV
- OUTPUT 12: project website and blog [W] RES

- OUTPUT 13: github site (radical transparency) [W] DEV
    + basically a downloadable version of all texts from the website


# possible partners/people to work with

- another scholar (from other discipline) to act as third-person perspective: involve watching authentic movement, note taking, development of journal about epistemic limits (or hyper-visuality or analogue practices ...)
- organisations or people interested in communicating scholarly/academic research to wider public? 
- value of artistic practice
- things that are not able to be counted
- name of that Doctor that Rosie worked with (un/knowing body? or podcast?)

- all people must be willing and able to travel by train (no air travel in this grant)

- Btihaj Ajana: https://kclpure.kcl.ac.uk/portal/btihaj.ajana.html
- Adriana Cavarero: https://www.dsu.univr.it/?ent=persona&id=727&lang=en
- 

## edit bin

- annotated bibliography of 100 key practice-research articles on epistemology-focused articles/chapters (OA scholarly resource) in artistic-research [W] RES
- glossary of 50 key terms (web) [W] RES
    + like simondon-2012-being.pdf - 50 key terms (wikilinked)

Commit message:

add update to List of Outputs.md by removing old version from CfS

list of outputs.md, after:


# list of outputs

- split between research activities (outputs) and developmental ones, and the possibility of managing this throughout the 18 months

_problems:_

_1. proxies_

- OUTPUT 1: journal article on proxies [1] RES

_2. limits_

- OUTPUT 2: authentic movement: speculative and/or experimental documentation practices through writing and still and moving images [2] RES
- OUTPUT 3: third-person scholarly article [2] about epistemic limits - in collaboration with philosopher Katherine Hawley? Anna Pakes? Anthropologist? or Alva Noe? or Tim Ingold or Guy Claxton or Adriana Cavarero) [2] RES
- OUTPUT 4: _Unforgettable_ exhibition [2] DEV
- OUTPUT 5: _The Un/knowable Body_ exhibition [2] DEV

_3. hyper-specificity_

- OUTPUT 6: lexicon of epistemological "findings and failures" [3] RES
    + like the emotion wheel
    + lexicon: "the vocabulary of a person, language, or branch of knowledge"

_4. W = whole project_

- these outputs should address (in some form) the overall aim. Can this aim allude to key aspect of communications or is that separate to the 'research'?

- OUTPUT 7: video essay: collates and articulates key concerns/findings of project [W] RES
- OUTPUT 8: 8-10 podcasts (transcribed) [W] DEV
    + Vida Midgelow
    + Paul Magee
    + Harmony Bench (scepticism)
    + Rachel Hann
    + Henk Borgdorff
    + Erik Knudsen
    + Finland? Sweden? Canada? 
    + Singapore
    + Katherine Hawley?
    + look at PRAG group?
    + interviews with wider public (e.g. Jo Fidgen, Lupe, ) - is she worth asking about possible communications thinking? ask to read a short document outlining finger pointing moon project (the concept).
    + School of Life? 
    + LessWrong? 

- OUTPUT 9: discourse forum: a site for students, potential students, artist-researchers, other disciplines; create with group of people from around the world: look to get 50-100 active users in first year [W] DEV
    + plan for maintenance and sustainability
- OUTPUT 10: 5 curated talks online (micro-conferences) [W - but curated towards each of 3 problems] DEV
    + e.g. [lesswrong.com/posts/9m9SniwdKsKyfjrMw/inviting-curated-authors-to-give-5-min-online-talks](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/9m9SniwdKsKyfjrMw/inviting-curated-authors-to-give-5-min-online-talks)
    + these could be held by people who have contributed to the project blog or the podcasts? 
- OUTPUT 11: article for The Conversation [W] RES / DEV
- OUTPUT 12: project website and blog [W] RES

- OUTPUT 13: github site (radical transparency) [W] DEV
    + basically a downloadable version of all texts from the website


# possible partners/people to work with

- another scholar (from other discipline) to act as third-person perspective: involve watching authentic movement, note taking, development of journal about epistemic limits (or hyper-visuality or analogue practices ...)
- organisations or people interested in communicating scholarly/academic research to wider public? 
- value of artistic practice
- things that are not able to be counted
- name of that Doctor that Rosie worked with (un/knowing body? or podcast?)

- all people must be willing and able to travel by train (no air travel in this grant)

- Btihaj Ajana: https://kclpure.kcl.ac.uk/portal/btihaj.ajana.html
- Adriana Cavarero: https://www.dsu.univr.it/?ent=persona&id=727&lang=en
- 


- OUTPUT 1: authentic movement: speculative and/or experimental documentation practices through writing and still and moving images **contribution here is more 'pure' practice-research in that it will be contributing directly through the practice to that community -- no, also as a lens through which to critique practice-research** RES (W)
- OUTPUT 2: third-person scholarly article about epistemic limits - goal is to work for high level QI type journal RES (1)
- OUTPUT 3: _Unforgettable_ exhibition DEV (1)
- OUTPUT 4: _The Un/knowable Body_ exhibition DEV (1)
- OUTPUT 5: journal article on epistemic proxies RES (2)
- OUTPUT 6: lexicon of epistemological "findings and failures" RES [3]
    + like the emotion wheel
    + lexicon: "the vocabulary of a person, language, or branch of knowledge"
- OUTPUT 7: video essay: collates and articulates key concerns/findings of project [W] RES
- OUTPUT 8: 2 series of 8 episodes of podcast [W] DEV
    - 1. Series 1: limits of knowledge
    - 2. Series 2: limits of language
- OUTPUT 9: discourse forum: a site for students, potential students, artist-researchers, other disciplines; create with group of people from around the world: look to get 50-100 active users in first year [W] DEV
- OUTPUT 10: 3 curated talks online (micro-conferences)[^less_eg] [W] RES
    + these could be held by people who have contributed to the project blog or the podcasts? Or ideas for them emerge from 'hot topics' in Discourse Forum? 
- OUTPUT 11: project website and blog [W] RES

## edit bin

- annotated bibliography of 100 key practice-research articles on epistemology-focused articles/chapters (OA scholarly resource) in artistic-research [W] RES
- glossary of 50 key terms (web) [W] RES
    + like simondon-2012-being.pdf - 50 key terms (wikilinked)
