project-partners and project-team.md, before:

# project partners

_un/knowing body_ / _Knowledge of Body_

confirmed:
- S'ALA: require translation of materials/payment to install
- Dancehouse (Melbourne Australia) -- Josh Wright/Ashley Dyer 20201014

contacted:

yet to approach:
- Siobhan Davies Dance (waiting to hear back from Sue about how best to discuss with their change of team)
- person Scott 

_unforgettable_

confirmed:
- Yorkshire Dance: confirmed
- The Work Room (Anita Clark): confirmed 20201011

yet to approach:

- Bassano del Grappa? 
- possibles from talking with Debbie Williams:
    + Sarah Fadel in Lebanon -- for unforgettable experience
    + Nirmala in Singapore -- her own organisation 

contacted:
- Robyn Cabaret and Anneliese Graham at Sadlers 20201014; 

no or I decided not to:
- The Place: contacted Eddie 20200916; again 20201002
- San Francisco space? -- contacted Christian Burns 20200916
- CDS
- contacted Debbie Williams about Choreomundus contacts: 20200917; 20201014


>from Je-S help:

>Project Partners

>Details should be given of project partners and their contributions. An organisation should only be named as a project partner if it is providing specific contributions (either direct or indirect) to the research project.

>Research Councils will pay Research Councils' % contribution of the total costs of the project excluding the project partner contribution. Project partner contributions in cash or in-kind should be seen as additional to the Research Councils' % contribution and are not considered part of the fEC of the project. BBSRC operates an exception for Industrial Partnership Awards (see BBSRC Research Grants Guide for details).

>Attach a letter to the proposal (attachment type "letter of support") from each partner.

>The content of the letter should:

>Confirm commitment to the proposed project;
Clearly explain the value, relevance and possible benefits of the work to the project partner;
Give the nature and equivalent value of any in-kind contribution, and/or declare the value of a cash contribution, and period of support; and
Describe the added value to the project of the project partner’s involvement.
The letter should be dated and should be written when the proposal is being prepared. The letter should be targeted specifically to the project. A standard letter declaring support for the proposed work is not helpful.


# project team

## advisory board (possible)

- Sarah
- Maria Delgado
- Chris Smith (UKRI): https://www.ukri.org/news/preferred-candidate-chosen-for-the-role-of-executive-chair-of-the-arts-and-humanities-research-council/
- Chris Smith, Baron Smith of Finsbury (retired?) https://ahrc.ukri.org/research/readwatchlisten/features/its-exactly-the-right-thing-to-be-doing/
- someone from Universities UK?
- someone from PRAG?
- Michael Biggs
- Ken Friedman
- Lee Miller, Sarah Whatley, Ken Friedman, Michael Biggs, Charlotte Waelde, Carol Brown, Robin Nelson, Adrian Heathfield.

## project team

- RA
- PI
- project partners
- expert input (from Amy: and it is in minute amounts (this is a fellowship after all) AHRC will not be too rattled; and more important that you can clearly justify the necessary need. They are not going to be ‘employed’ but rather can only be ‘helicoptored’ in and out swiftly for brief moments.) -- Bob Whalley
- expert input

Commit message:

add comms letter to project partners

project-partners and project-team.md, after:

# project partners

_un/knowing body_ / _Knowledge of Body_

confirmed:
- S'ALA: require translation of materials/payment to install
- Dancehouse (Melbourne Australia) -- Josh Wright/Ashley Dyer 20201014

contacted:

yet to approach:
- Siobhan Davies Dance (waiting to hear back from Sue about how best to discuss with their change of team)
- person Scott 

_unforgettable_

confirmed:
- Yorkshire Dance: confirmed
- The Work Room (Anita Clark): confirmed 20201011

yet to approach:

- Bassano del Grappa? 
- possibles from talking with Debbie Williams:
    + Sarah Fadel in Lebanon -- for unforgettable experience
    + Nirmala in Singapore -- her own organisation 

contacted:
- Robyn Cabaret and Anneliese Graham at Sadlers 20201014; 

no or I decided not to:
- The Place: contacted Eddie 20200916; again 20201002
- San Francisco space? -- contacted Christian Burns 20200916
- CDS
- contacted Debbie Williams about Choreomundus contacts: 20200917; 20201014


>from Je-S help:

>Project Partners

>Details should be given of project partners and their contributions. An organisation should only be named as a project partner if it is providing specific contributions (either direct or indirect) to the research project.

>Research Councils will pay Research Councils' % contribution of the total costs of the project excluding the project partner contribution. Project partner contributions in cash or in-kind should be seen as additional to the Research Councils' % contribution and are not considered part of the fEC of the project. BBSRC operates an exception for Industrial Partnership Awards (see BBSRC Research Grants Guide for details).

>Attach a letter to the proposal (attachment type "letter of support") from each partner.

>The content of the letter should:

>Confirm commitment to the proposed project;
Clearly explain the value, relevance and possible benefits of the work to the project partner;
Give the nature and equivalent value of any in-kind contribution, and/or declare the value of a cash contribution, and period of support; and
Describe the added value to the project of the project partner’s involvement.
The letter should be dated and should be written when the proposal is being prepared. The letter should be targeted specifically to the project. A standard letter declaring support for the proposed work is not helpful.


# project team

## advisory board (possible)

Efrosini Protopapa, Lee Miller, Sarah Whatley, Ken Friedman, Michael Biggs, Charlotte Waelde, Carol Brown, Robin Nelson, Adrian Heathfield, Maria Delgado, Chris Smith (UKRI), someone from Universities UK?, someone from PRAG?.

## project team

- RA
- PI
- project partners
- expert input (from Amy: and it is in minute amounts (this is a fellowship after all) AHRC will not be too rattled; and more important that you can clearly justify the necessary need. They are not going to be ‘employed’ but rather can only be ‘helicoptored’ in and out swiftly for brief moments.) -- Bob Whalley
- expert input 

subject: dance improvisation research project

Dear 

My name is Simon Ellis and I'm a dance artist and researcher based at the Centre for Dance Research, Coventry University. My work explores the nature of improvisation in dance, and experimental methods of documenting ephemeral artistic practices and experiences.

This email is about a research project and funding bid – called Finger Pointing Moon - that is designed to explore what we can know and say about the practice of dancing. 

I've long being interested in your work on the nature of expertise, and the way it includes people and is able to find audiences outside of disciplinary boundaries. 

Would you be interested in being involved in the studio-based 'fieldwork' of the Finger Pointing Moon as a outside observer? Your role would be to provide 'expert input' on what you are seeing and noticing as you watch two people wrestle with the flow-like state of 'being present'. 

Thank you for your time and I look forward to hearing from you soon.

Yours sincerely.
