project-partners.md, before:

# project partners

>from Je-S help:

>Project Partners

>Details should be given of project partners and their contributions. An organisation should only be named as a project partner if it is providing specific contributions (either direct or indirect) to the research project.

>Research Councils will pay Research Councils' % contribution of the total costs of the project excluding the project partner contribution. Project partner contributions in cash or in-kind should be seen as additional to the Research Councils' % contribution and are not considered part of the fEC of the project. BBSRC operates an exception for Industrial Partnership Awards (see BBSRC Research Grants Guide for details).

>Attach a letter to the proposal (attachment type "letter of support") from each partner.

>The content of the letter should:

>Confirm commitment to the proposed project;
Clearly explain the value, relevance and possible benefits of the work to the project partner;
Give the nature and equivalent value of any in-kind contribution, and/or declare the value of a cash contribution, and period of support; and
Describe the added value to the project of the project partner’s involvement.
The letter should be dated and should be written when the proposal is being prepared. The letter should be targeted specifically to the project. A standard letter declaring support for the proposed work is not helpful.

Commit message:

add possible project partners for un/knowing body

project-partners.md, after:

# project partners


_un/knowing body_
- Siobhan Davies Dance or different gallery?
- Australia: Dancehouse? (need to pay someone to install it there)
- Scotland? ask Katrina


>from Je-S help:

>Project Partners

>Details should be given of project partners and their contributions. An organisation should only be named as a project partner if it is providing specific contributions (either direct or indirect) to the research project.

>Research Councils will pay Research Councils' % contribution of the total costs of the project excluding the project partner contribution. Project partner contributions in cash or in-kind should be seen as additional to the Research Councils' % contribution and are not considered part of the fEC of the project. BBSRC operates an exception for Industrial Partnership Awards (see BBSRC Research Grants Guide for details).

>Attach a letter to the proposal (attachment type "letter of support") from each partner.

>The content of the letter should:

>Confirm commitment to the proposed project;
Clearly explain the value, relevance and possible benefits of the work to the project partner;
Give the nature and equivalent value of any in-kind contribution, and/or declare the value of a cash contribution, and period of support; and
Describe the added value to the project of the project partner’s involvement.
The letter should be dated and should be written when the proposal is being prepared. The letter should be targeted specifically to the project. A standard letter declaring support for the proposed work is not helpful.
