project overview.md, before:

# finger pointing moon

## background

There is an epistemic crisis in body-based practice-research. It is a crisis revealed by the sharp rise in research exploring the nature of embodied knowledge.[^ek] In much of this embodied knowledge research, the idea that the body _knows_ acts as a proxy for what might or might not be [understood differently] **sort this out in relation below about not able to be known. ie 'differently' and 'unknown' are not the same thing** as a result of practice-research investigations. In other words, dance artist-scholars are valorising the concept of embodied knowledge while failing to address the key epistemic paradox of creative practice-research: that its ontological value and strength lies in what is _not_ able to be known, understood or articulated as a consequence of body-based creative practices.[^ttp1] This is a humbling limitation for any research method.

The contemporary cultural backdrop for the tension between embodied knowledge, the unknowable, and the inarticulable is the datafication of human experience. In 2017 _The Economist_ declared that the "world’s most valuable resource is no longer oil, but data".[^econ] We live in what Zuboff calls the age of _surveillance capitalism_ that is founded on "extractive operations in which our personal experiences are scraped and packaged as the means to others’ ends".[^zub1] The cultural and financial capital of understanding the world-as-data means it not surprising that precarious artistic practices located in and through the body – like dance and somatics – have also become enamoured by the doctrine of datafication. The plethora of online archives, digital documentation, and virtual and augmented reality projects are all attempts by dance scholars to transform the radical analogue-ness of embodied experiences into data.[^plethora] 

These two phenomena – the limitations of embodied practice-research and the datafication of experience – underpin this research proposal called _Finger Pointing Moon_. 

- dance presents an invaluable set of limitations/possibilities (explain delimiting of dance to body movement that is not text-orientated or based?). 
- exploring the nature of things that cannot be described (and implications for role and work of artistic-research in academy)

- If the key epistemic question is "who, when, why is constructing knowledges?"[@mignolo_epistemic_2009] then in this work I take one part of this question and discuss the epistemic _why_ of experiences that are unable to be discussed. They are experiences of politics and humility that underpin the radically analogue nature of the human body; they are experiences that exceed "algorithmic description";[@odell_how_2019] perhaps they are even experiences or _acts_ of "epistemic disobedience".[@mignolo_epistemic_2009]

– will enter the heart of this practice-research crisis through two first-person research strategies: a) creative practices; b) a radical examination of the nature of leadership.


yet to deal coherently and rigorously with what _can_ be said (and not said) about our artistic-scholarly practices that is based on the materiality or substance of the practices themselves. Instead, more or less, we just make things up OR we hope the practices do something.

- nature of the practices: defy two things - a) capacity to be accurately and wholly articulated (or shared); b) analogue human experiences ("exceed algorithmic description")


 



### Creative Practices


>leadership is a word "to describe significant actions enabling change that is welcomed by affected people. -- Bendell [-@bendell_leadership_2019]

- what kinds of significant actions?
- what might these 'changes' be?
- who are the ‘affected people’ in this context?
- who are the groups, networks or whole communities of people?
- what kinds of effects over time?

- possible to link leadership thoughts about 'affected people' below with 'crowd epistemics' from That Thing Produced? 

## useful words 

datafication | resolution | change | practice-as-research | dance | epistemology | data | analogue | digital | archive | documentation | experiential | unforgettable | perpetuity | value | embodied knowledge | humility

## aim

Develop, critique and share epistemic principles for practice-as-research

## objectives 

- generate and critically examine three PaR practices for which their epistemic possibilities are radically different. Also come from different positions of "leadership" 
- research and produce annotated bibliography of PaR literature that refers to its history and its epistemic possibilities and limits
- examine through practice the role of solitude in understanding leadership, action and change (contrast this with 'group epistemics' from That Thing Produced – actually, not in contrast. I think they sit together quite clearly. (see [@sennett_together_2012 p.21] -- about getting outside yourself)
- epistemic principles in practice-research
- epistemic values in practice-research 
- leadership/practice connected by corporeal actions: what the body can do, and what the body does (fare: to make and to do)
- focus on collective organising; strategies for collective organising: collecting practice? 

## sum requested

- ??

## time

- 18 month project, commencing June 2021

## personnel

- 1 x 0.6 PI (Ellis)
- 1 x 0.5 RA (TBC) 
- 1 x research consultant (Lalitarāja?)


## hybrid method

Primarily a first and second person investigation. <https://thesystemsthinker.com/first-second-and-third-person-research-in-practice/>

1. practice-as-research fieldwork through three distinct practices
    a) experientially rich movement: that which cannot be described or known (with research consultant: what can't be said? then what remains? (name for such a method?)) - from the perspective of doing. Dance and choreographic practices are paradigmatic in this case: 
>Choreography is a corporeal passage in which the body is both a question and an inaccessible answer. Choreography is the indecipherable language of bodies presented for interpretation. In choreography the negative comes into presence: the unseen shimmers, the unheard whispers, the unfelt is caressed and we intuit the unknown.[@heathfield_what_2011]
    
    b) solitary practice (leadership focused) - "doubts, or questions, or even just difficulties ... can only be found within--without distractions, without peer pressure, in solitude." -- [@deresiewicz_solitude_2010 np]
    c) collecting practice called "unforgettable experiences": collecting hand-written notes/letters of others about memories of watching dance/performance. Key: analogue, experience of watching (v 'doing' in 'a' above)
2. literature and field review: analysis of past and present through published materials (RA heavily responsible)
3. cross-disciplinary case studies/interviews: leadership/epistemics/uncertainty/humility/epistemic limits -- how to identify these cases? Cases ought also to be current practitioners working with PaR -- who would these be? (who are the key figures in dance? (and perhaps beyond). Possibilities could be:
    + Bob and Lee
    + Henk Borgdorff
    + Michael Schwab
    + Carol Brown
    + Paul Magee
    + what about areas like nursing, or care-based practices? Go broader
- analysis of these various data? 
    + cataloguing of collected letters/responses (sorting into various kinds of works, responses, years, etc)
- address climate change in structure/construction of project method and management? 


## potential partners 

- Siobhan Davies Dance
- Yorkshire Dance
- The Workroom (Glasgow)
- Chisenhale Dance Space
- The Place
- Sadlers Wells 
- continue thinking about this (will depend on how project develops)

## potential outputs

### definite 
- OA desktop documentary exploring PaR epistemic principles (key output)
    + auxiliary-output: OA film from quiver/unstable work with RC
    + auxiliary-output: OA visual trace (e.g. photo series from authentic movement practice with RC - building on work with Shaun McLeod in 2019)
- website: a) annotated bibliography; b) bi-weekly blog post; c) collecting materials and traces of project
- github site for all text materials - radically transparent and OA
- symposium (e.g. using Radhoc’s Unpanel or another Unconference idea[^1]) 
- materials wall exhibition (similar to Eliasson) -- could be kept up for a while at SDD and even installed in other spaces = resources, insights, notes, images (need to consider how to store this, any copyright issues, broaden beyond practices )
- journal article: principles of par epistemics

### maybe

- one-on-one public workshops/experiences exploring AM and ways of knowing
- podcast? 
- OA publication for wider public: What Does Dance Know? (e.g. leanpub? with illustrations?)
 
## academic beneficiaries 

- PaR scholars (cross-disciplinary)
- dance studies scholars
- theatre and performance studies scholars
- PaR PhD (and other PG) students 

## non-academic beneficiaries

- artists
- wider public (about why our bodies matter)
- 

## notes and references

[^1]: <https://fulcra.design/science-conferences-are-stuck-in-the-dark-ages> and other options here: <https://unconference.net/methods/>

[^ek]: Recent examples include 

[^ttp1]: See for example Ellis 2018. 'That Thing Produced', in: Ellis, Blades & Waelde, C. (Eds.), _A World of Muscle, Bone & Organs_, pp. 480–498.

[^econ]: The world’s most valuable resource is no longer oil, but data, 2017. The Economist. <https://www.economist.com/leaders/2017/05/06/the-worlds-most-valuable-resource-is-no-longer-oil-but-data>.

[^zub1]: Zuboff 2019. _The Age of Surveillance Capitalism_.

[^plethora]: See for example 


## edit bin

5. group online activity (with associated chat) - like a youtube live stream/chat -- not so dissimilar from an online tutorial or open conversation?
6. method designed to minimise carbon production (no flights, no cars, as local as possible: limitations are obvious re digital technologies, server storage, any online activity, vital to keep it outward looking and international. Balancing local and global.)

has various descriptions, components or histories including (list them). What these different strands of thought and practice have in common is the _recognition_ that there are experiences afforded by this experimental set of methods known as PaR that are _unable to be known and/or articulated_. (epistemic routines of PaR). 

For some this humbling limitation is a weakness (refs), and for others a strength (refs). 

and it is the nature of humility that underpins this research and leadership proposal.

Dance and the performing arts are likewise beholden to the datafication of experience: the online archive, digital documentation, virtual reality ... After all, like moths to a flame, we follow the money in order to survive.

crisis fuelled by never really getting to grips with what we can know as a consequence of practice.

Commit message:

add ideas to do with linking datafication with who, when and why of constructing knowledges

project overview.md, after:

# finger pointing moon

## background

There is an epistemic crisis in body-based practice-research. It is a crisis revealed by the sharp rise in scholarship exploring the nature of embodied knowledge.[^ek] In much of that research, the idea that the body _knows_ acts as a proxy for the epistemic limitations of practice-research investigations. In other words, dance artist-scholars who research through movement practices are valorising the concept of embodied knowledge while failing to address the key epistemic paradox of creative practice-research: that its ontological power lies at least in part in what is _not_ able to be known, understood or articulated as a consequence of body-based creative practices.[^ttp1] This is a humbling limitation for any research method.

The contemporary cultural backdrop for the tension between embodied knowledge, the unknowable, and the inarticulable is the datafication of human experience. In 2017 _The Economist_ declared that the "world’s most valuable resource is no longer oil, but data".[^econ] We live in what Zuboff calls the age of _surveillance capitalism_ that is founded on "extractive operations in which our personal experiences are scraped and packaged as the means to others’ ends".[^zub1] The cultural and financial capital of understanding the world-as-data means it is not surprising that precarious artistic practices located in and through the body – like dance and somatics – have also become enamoured by the doctrine of datafication. The plethora of online archives, digital documentation, and virtual and augmented reality projects are all attempts by dance scholars to transform the radical analogue-ness of embodied experiences into data.[^plethora] 

This research leadership project called _Finger Pointing Moon_ is underpinned by these two phenomena: the limitations of embodied practice-research, and the datafication of experience. These phenomena are related because the construction and production of knowledge in any scholarly field is never based on the simple observation of worldly phenomena. Rather, to understand what we say we know, the key epistemic question is in fact "who, when, [and] why is constructing knowledges?"[^mig1] The key contemporary context for understanding the construction of knowledge is the datafication of human experience – the world's most valuable resource. Therefore, to understand the broader epistemic problems and possibilities of practice-research, we must 

To focus on who, when and why is constructing knowledges ... and 
Therefore, in our time of the datafication of human experience, means focusing on who, when and why is constructing knowledges. 

the limiIn this project I focus on the epistemic _why_ of human movement experiences that are unable to be discussed. In order , we must first understand why these ways of knowing and understandings are being  


They are experiences of politics and humility that underpin the radically analogue nature of the human body; 

- dance presents an invaluable set of limitations/possibilities (explain delimiting of dance to body movement that is not text-orientated or based?). they are experiences that exceed "algorithmic description";[@odell_how_2019] perhaps they are even experiences or _acts_ of "epistemic disobedience".[@mignolo_epistemic_2009]
- exploring the nature of things that cannot be described (and implications for role and work of artistic-research in academy)



– will enter the heart of this practice-research crisis through two first-person research strategies: a) creative practices; b) a radical examination of the nature of leadership.

PaR (as a fundamentally, and historically first-person strategy) demands that we focus on the knower. The known is dependent on the knower. 

>in order to call into question the modern/colonial foundation of the control of knowledge, it is necessary to focus on the knower rather than on the known. It means to go to the very assumptions that sustain locus enunciations. [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.162]


I'm interested in mobilising the knower, in critiquing the knower. The assumptions of the knower. The prejudices of the knower. The assertions of the knower. The power of the knower. The limitations of the knower.


Thinking about authority and humility: "the colonial matrix of power (economy, authority, gender and sexuality, and knowledge/subjectivity)" [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.163]

authority and humility: the epistemic paradox

Dilthey and ideographic sciences -- "concerned with meaning and interpretations" [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.164]

yet to deal coherently and rigorously with what _can_ be said (and not said) about our artistic-scholarly practices that is based on the materiality or substance of the practices themselves. Instead, more or less, we just make things up OR we hope the practices do something.

- nature of the practices: defy two things - a) capacity to be accurately and wholly articulated (or shared); b) analogue human experiences ("exceed algorithmic description")


 



### Creative Practices


>leadership is a word "to describe significant actions enabling change that is welcomed by affected people. -- Bendell [-@bendell_leadership_2019]

- what kinds of significant actions?
- what might these 'changes' be?
- who are the ‘affected people’ in this context?
- who are the groups, networks or whole communities of people?
- what kinds of effects over time?

- possible to link leadership thoughts about 'affected people' below with 'crowd epistemics' from That Thing Produced? 

## useful words 

datafication | resolution | change | practice-as-research | dance | epistemology | data | analogue | digital | archive | documentation | experiential | unforgettable | perpetuity | value | embodied knowledge | humility

## aim

Develop, critique and share epistemic principles for practice-as-research

## objectives 

- generate and critically examine three PaR practices for which their epistemic possibilities are radically different. Also come from different positions of "leadership" 
- research and produce annotated bibliography of PaR literature that refers to its history and its epistemic possibilities and limits
- examine through practice the role of solitude in understanding leadership, action and change (contrast this with 'group epistemics' from That Thing Produced – actually, not in contrast. I think they sit together quite clearly. (see [@sennett_together_2012 p.21] -- about getting outside yourself)
- epistemic principles in practice-research
- epistemic values in practice-research 
- leadership/practice connected by corporeal actions: what the body can do, and what the body does (fare: to make and to do)
- focus on collective organising; strategies for collective organising: collecting practice? 

## sum requested

- ??

## time

- 18 month project, commencing June 2021

## personnel

- 1 x 0.6 PI (Ellis)
- 1 x 0.5 RA (TBC) 
- 1 x research consultant (Lalitarāja?)


## hybrid method

Primarily a first and second person investigation. <https://thesystemsthinker.com/first-second-and-third-person-research-in-practice/>

1. practice-as-research fieldwork through three distinct practices
    a) experientially rich movement: that which cannot be described or known (with research consultant: what can't be said? then what remains? (name for such a method?)) - from the perspective of doing. Dance and choreographic practices are paradigmatic in this case: 
>Choreography is a corporeal passage in which the body is both a question and an inaccessible answer. Choreography is the indecipherable language of bodies presented for interpretation. In choreography the negative comes into presence: the unseen shimmers, the unheard whispers, the unfelt is caressed and we intuit the unknown.[@heathfield_what_2011]
    
    b) solitary practice (leadership focused) - "doubts, or questions, or even just difficulties ... can only be found within--without distractions, without peer pressure, in solitude." -- [@deresiewicz_solitude_2010 np]
    c) collecting practice called "unforgettable experiences": collecting hand-written notes/letters of others about memories of watching dance/performance. Key: analogue, experience of watching (v 'doing' in 'a' above)
2. literature and field review: analysis of past and present through published materials (RA heavily responsible)
3. cross-disciplinary case studies/interviews: leadership/epistemics/uncertainty/humility/epistemic limits -- how to identify these cases? Cases ought also to be current practitioners working with PaR -- who would these be? (who are the key figures in dance? (and perhaps beyond). Possibilities could be:
    + Bob and Lee
    + Henk Borgdorff
    + Michael Schwab
    + Carol Brown
    + Paul Magee
    + what about areas like nursing, or care-based practices? Go broader
- analysis of these various data? 
    + cataloguing of collected letters/responses (sorting into various kinds of works, responses, years, etc)
- address climate change in structure/construction of project method and management? 


## potential partners 

- Siobhan Davies Dance
- Yorkshire Dance
- The Workroom (Glasgow)
- Chisenhale Dance Space
- The Place
- Sadlers Wells 
- continue thinking about this (will depend on how project develops)

## potential outputs

### definite 
- OA desktop documentary exploring PaR epistemic principles (key output)
    + auxiliary-output: OA film from quiver/unstable work with RC
    + auxiliary-output: OA visual trace (e.g. photo series from authentic movement practice with RC - building on work with Shaun McLeod in 2019)
- website: a) annotated bibliography; b) bi-weekly blog post; c) collecting materials and traces of project
- github site for all text materials - radically transparent and OA
- symposium (e.g. using Radhoc’s Unpanel or another Unconference idea[^1]) 
- materials wall exhibition (similar to Eliasson) -- could be kept up for a while at SDD and even installed in other spaces = resources, insights, notes, images (need to consider how to store this, any copyright issues, broaden beyond practices )
- journal article: principles of par epistemics

### maybe

- one-on-one public workshops/experiences exploring AM and ways of knowing
- podcast? 
- OA publication for wider public: What Does Dance Know? (e.g. leanpub? with illustrations?)
 
## academic beneficiaries 

- PaR scholars (cross-disciplinary)
- dance studies scholars
- theatre and performance studies scholars
- PaR PhD (and other PG) students 

## non-academic beneficiaries

- artists
- wider public (about why our bodies matter)
- 

## notes and references

[^1]: <https://fulcra.design/science-conferences-are-stuck-in-the-dark-ages> and other options here: <https://unconference.net/methods/>

[^ek]: Recent examples include 

[^ttp1]: See for example Ellis 2018. 'That Thing Produced', in: Ellis, Blades & Waelde, C. (Eds.), _A World of Muscle, Bone & Organs_, pp. 480–498.

[^econ]: The world’s most valuable resource is no longer oil, but data, 2017. The Economist. <https://www.economist.com/leaders/2017/05/06/the-worlds-most-valuable-resource-is-no-longer-oil-but-data>.

[^zub1]: Zuboff 2019. _The Age of Surveillance Capitalism_.

[^plethora]: See for example 

[^mig1]: Mignolo 2009. 'Epistemic Disobedience, Independent Thought and Decolonial Freedom'. _Theory, Culture and Society 26_, 159–181. <https://doi.org/10.1177/0263276409349275>


## edit bin

5. group online activity (with associated chat) - like a youtube live stream/chat -- not so dissimilar from an online tutorial or open conversation?
6. method designed to minimise carbon production (no flights, no cars, as local as possible: limitations are obvious re digital technologies, server storage, any online activity, vital to keep it outward looking and international. Balancing local and global.)

has various descriptions, components or histories including (list them). What these different strands of thought and practice have in common is the _recognition_ that there are experiences afforded by this experimental set of methods known as PaR that are _unable to be known and/or articulated_. (epistemic routines of PaR). 

For some this humbling limitation is a weakness (refs), and for others a strength (refs). 

and it is the nature of humility that underpins this research and leadership proposal.

Dance and the performing arts are likewise beholden to the datafication of experience: the online archive, digital documentation, virtual reality ... After all, like moths to a flame, we follow the money in order to survive.

crisis fuelled by never really getting to grips with what we can know as a consequence of practice.
