20191129 - performance knowledges conference malta/20191204 - malta abstract.md, before:

# malta abstract

The backdrop: We have been seduced into participating unwittingly in a silent war, and the algorithms of Google and Facebook are winning. [add data here about data as massive industry] It is the age of _surveillance capitalism_, founded on "extractive operations in which our personal experiences are scraped and packaged as the means to others’ ends." [@zuboff_age_2019] 

"as a challenge to the elemental right to the future tense, which accounts for the individual’s ability to imagine, intend, promise, and construct a future" [@zuboff_age_2019]

feeding "on every aspect of every human’s experience. [@zuboff_age_2019]"

Dance and theatre are likewise beholden to the data-fication of experience: the online archive, digital documentation. After all, like moths to a flame, we go where the funding is in order to survive.   
I can only be ... data. (choices are running out; free to be data). 

"exceeds algorithmic description" [@odell_how_2019 p.xvi]

The main scene: 
Consider the simplest of sets: an empty studio (it can be wherever you choose). Two people. A smartphone working as a stills camera.



- huge reduction in scale 
- discuss a simple exploratory period of research through practice of dance; more specifically: authentic movement
- with Australian choreographer and dancer Shaun McLeod
- high resolution experiences, low resolution traces of the project
- calling on decolonial epistemologies: hubris of the zero point
- detached and neutral point of observation
- I'm involved in something quite unlike this. 
- politically dangerous because I'm borrowing (polite way of saying it) work of scholars working deeply with decoloniality

"The question is: who, when, why is constructing knowledges?" [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

"Epistemic disobedience means to delink from the illusion of the zero point epistemology." -- Mignolo [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]





>We cannot evaluate the current trajectory of information civilization without a clear appreciation that technology is not and never can be a thing in itself, isolated from economics and society. This means that technological inevitability does not exist. Technologies are always economic means, not ends in themselves: in modern times, technology’s DNA comes already patterned by what the sociologist Max Weber called the “economic orientation.”
Economic ends, Weber observed, are always intrinsic to technology’s development and deployment. “Economic action” determines objectives, whereas technology provides “appropriate means.” In Weber’s framing, “The fact that what is called the technological development of modern times has been so largely oriented economically to profit-making is one of the fundamental facts of the history of technology.” [@zuboff_age_2019]


## Biography 

Simon Ellis is an artist and researcher working in choreography, film-making and dance. He was born in the Wairarapa in Aotearoa/New Zealand, but now lives in London. Simon is a Pākehā – a white person of European descent – and his ethnicity has shaped and challenged how he understands his privileges and taste. His experiences growing up in a politicised family environment nourished his curiosity about power, race, consumerism and digital technologies, and these in turn underpin much of what his research is about, and how it is conducted. Simon also thinks about the ways in which humans might value things that are not easily commodified, and likes to imagine a world filled with people who are sensitive to their own bodies, and the bodies of others.

## Presentation details

- (Un)conventional presentation (15-20 minutes)
- require video projection and audio from my computer (2015 MacBook Pro with HDMI or mini-display ports). I will need to use my computer (as opposed to a shared laptop) as I will build the presentation 'live' using various applications on my machine.
- I also require information about the possible resolutions of the monitor/projector in the conference room.



## References

Commit message:

add Odell quote and edit to biography

20191129 - performance knowledges conference malta/20191204 - malta abstract.md, after:

# malta abstract

The backdrop: We have been seduced into participating unwittingly in a silent war, and the algorithms of Google and Facebook are winning. [add data here about data as massive industry] It is the age of _surveillance capitalism_, founded on "extractive operations in which our personal experiences are scraped and packaged as the means to others’ ends." [@zuboff_age_2019] 

"as a challenge to the elemental right to the future tense, which accounts for the individual’s ability to imagine, intend, promise, and construct a future" [@zuboff_age_2019]

feeding "on every aspect of every human’s experience. [@zuboff_age_2019]"

Dance and theatre are likewise beholden to the data-fication of experience: the online archive, digital documentation. After all, like moths to a flame, we go where the funding is in order to survive.   
I can only be ... data. (choices are running out; free to be data). 

"exceeds algorithmic description" [@odell_how_2019 p.xvi]

The main scene: 
Consider the simplest of sets: an empty studio (it can be wherever you choose). Two people. A smartphone working as a stills camera.

"I believe that capitalism, colonialist thinking, loneliness, and an abusive stance toward the environment all coproduce one another" [@odell_how_2019]

- huge reduction in scale 
- discuss a simple exploratory period of research through practice of dance; more specifically: authentic movement
- with Australian choreographer and dancer Shaun McLeod
- high resolution experiences, low resolution traces of the project
- calling on decolonial epistemologies: hubris of the zero point
- detached and neutral point of observation
- I'm involved in something quite unlike this. 
- politically dangerous because I'm borrowing (polite way of saying it) work of scholars working deeply with decoloniality

"The question is: who, when, why is constructing knowledges?" [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

"Epistemic disobedience means to delink from the illusion of the zero point epistemology." -- Mignolo [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]





>We cannot evaluate the current trajectory of information civilization without a clear appreciation that technology is not and never can be a thing in itself, isolated from economics and society. This means that technological inevitability does not exist. Technologies are always economic means, not ends in themselves: in modern times, technology’s DNA comes already patterned by what the sociologist Max Weber called the “economic orientation.”
Economic ends, Weber observed, are always intrinsic to technology’s development and deployment. “Economic action” determines objectives, whereas technology provides “appropriate means.” In Weber’s framing, “The fact that what is called the technological development of modern times has been so largely oriented economically to profit-making is one of the fundamental facts of the history of technology.” [@zuboff_age_2019]


## Biography 

Simon Ellis is an artist working with practices of choreography, filmmaking and dance. He was born in the Wairarapa in Aotearoa/New Zealand, but now lives in London. He is a Pākehā — a white person of European descent – and his experiences growing up in a politicised family environment helped shape his desire to understand consumerism, digital technologies and the nature of inequality. He also thinks a lot about the ways humans might value things that are not easily commodified, and likes to imagine a world filled with people who are sensitive to their bodies, and the bodies of others.

## Presentation details

- (Un)conventional presentation (15-20 minutes)
- require video projection and audio from my computer (2015 MacBook Pro with HDMI or mini-display ports). I will need to use my computer (as opposed to a shared laptop) as I will build the presentation 'live' using various applications on my machine.
- I also require information about the possible resolutions of the monitor/projector in the conference room.



## References
