20191129 - performance knowledges conference malta/20191129 - initial thinking for malta.md, before:

# 20191129 - initial thinking

## edit bin from abstract

"as a challenge to the elemental right to the future tense, which accounts for the individual’s ability to imagine, intend, promise, and construct a future" [@zuboff_age_2019]

feeding "on every aspect of every human’s experience. [@zuboff_age_2019]"

>Why must everything be explained, or be possible to translate, why pick it all to bits—as though it were only a camouflage for something else? MADNESS. We hide too easily behind all the words. [@lilja_words_2003 p.11]



"I believe that capitalism, colonialist thinking, loneliness, and an abusive stance toward the environment all coproduce one another" [@odell_how_2019]

- huge reduction in scale 
- discuss a simple exploratory period of research through practice of dance; more specifically: authentic movement
- with Australian choreographer and dancer Shaun McLeod
- high resolution experiences, low resolution traces of the project
- calling on decolonial epistemologies: hubris of the zero point
- detached and neutral point of observation
- I'm involved in something quite unlike this. 
- politically dangerous because I'm borrowing (polite way of saying it) work of scholars working deeply with decoloniality

"Epistemic disobedience means to delink from the illusion of the zero point epistemology." -- Mignolo [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

>We cannot evaluate the current trajectory of information civilization without a clear appreciation that technology is not and never can be a thing in itself, isolated from economics and society. This means that technological inevitability does not exist. Technologies are always economic means, not ends in themselves: in modern times, technology’s DNA comes already patterned by what the sociologist Max Weber called the “economic orientation.”
Economic ends, Weber observed, are always intrinsic to technology’s development and deployment. “Economic action” determines objectives, whereas technology provides “appropriate means.” In Weber’s framing, “The fact that what is called the technological development of modern times has been so largely oriented economically to profit-making is one of the fundamental facts of the history of technology.” [@zuboff_age_2019]

## mignolo - 2009 - epistemic disobedience 

>From a detached and neutral point of observation (that Colombian philosopher Santiago Castro-Gómez (2007) describes as the _hubris of the zero point_), the knowing subject maps the world and its problems, classifies people and projects into what is good for them. Today that assumption is no longer tenable, although there are still many believers. [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

- discuss zero point
- "the hubris of the zero point"
- detached and neutral point of observation
- I'm involved in something quite unlike this. 
- politically dangerous because I'm borrowing (polite way of saying it) work of scholars working deeply with decoloniality

>By setting the scenario in terms of geo- and body-politics I am starting and departing from already familiar notions of ‘situated knowledges’. Sure, all knowledges are situated and every knowledge is constructed. But that is just the beginning. The question is: who, when, why is constructing knowledges (Mignolo, 1999, 2005 [1995])? [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

"Epistemic disobedience means to delink from the illusion of the zero point epistemology." -- Mignolo [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

>Who and when, why and where is knowledge generated (rather than produced, like cars or cell phones)? Asking these questions means to shift the attention from the enunciated to the enunciation. And by so doing, turning Descartes’s dictum inside out: rather than assuming that thinking comes before being, one assumes instead that it is a racially marked body in a geo-historical marked space that feels the urge or get the call to speak, to articulate, in whatever semiotic system, the urge that makes of living organisms ‘human’ beings. [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

-- generated v produced. The (racially) marked body. Feels urge. The enunciation. Who and when, why and where? 
-- these are all very critical questions.

>By setting the scenario in terms of geo- and body-politics I am starting and departing from already familiar notions of ‘situated knowledges’. Sure, all knowledges are situated and every knowledge is constructed. But that is just the beginning. The question is: who, when, why is constructing knowledges (Mignolo, 1999, 2005 [1995])? Why did eurocentered epistemology conceal its own geo-historical and bio-graphical locations and succeed in creating the idea of universal knowledge as if the knowing subjects were also universal? This illusion is pervasive today in the social sciences, the humanities, the natural sciences and the professional schools. Epistemic disobedience means to delink from the illusion of the zero point epistemology. [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

-- who, when, why is constructing knowledges?
-- humble claims (see p.162)
-- not claiming originality (p.162 Mignolo) but contributing to growing processes

"to allow the silences to build arguments to confront those who take ‘originality’ as the ultimate criterion for the final judgment" -- Mignolo [-@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.162]

"it is necessary to focus on the knower rather than on the known." - Mignolo [-@mignolo_epistemic_2009 162]. But I'm kind of interested in the known as well. How to balance these?  Not possible I suspect (because mine is not really a decolonial project). But the question of _who_ is knowing remains critical: taste, judgement, assumptions. In something as slippery as PaR that is kind of all we have. We are those knowledge producers (so so different from generators). As he says, "like cell phones". What does this make it possible to see and experience? 

Focus on enunciation (see p.163 Mignolo)


>I have supported in the past those who maintain that it is not enough to change the content of the conversation, that it is of the essence to change the terms of the conversation. Changing the terms of the conversation implies going beyond disciplinary or interdisciplinary controversies and the conflict of interpretations. As far as controversies and interpretations remain within the same rules of the game (terms of the conversation), the control of knowledge is not called into question. And in order to call into question the modern/colonial foundation of the control of knowledge, it is necessary to focus on the knower rather than on the known. It means to go to the very assumptions that sustain locus enunciations. [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.162]

>Wilhelm Dilthey (1991) came up with his ground-breaking epistemic distinction between ideographic and nomothetic sciences, the first concerned with meaning and interpretations, the second with laws and explanations. [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.164]

In 1991 Wilhem Dilthey described the "epistemic distinction between ideographic and nomothetic sciences" [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.164]. Ideographic sciences are concerned with meaning and interpretations, and nomothetic with laws and explanations.


>what I’m suggesting is that we take a protective stance toward ourselves, each other, and whatever is left of what makes us human—including the alliances that sustain and surprise us. I’m suggesting that we protect our spaces and our time for non-instrumental, noncommercial activity and thought, for maintenance, for care, for conviviality. And I’m suggesting that we fiercely protect our human animality against all technologies that actively ignore and disdain the body, the bodies of other beings, and the body of the landscape that we inhabit. [@odell_how_2019]


## de Sousa Santos - 2001 - epistemology of blindness


>In my view, resolution, just as scale and perspective, is at the core of modern science and operates at two different levels: the level of methodology and the level of theory. Both methods and theories are present in the scientific identification of objects to be analyzed; but methods predominate in the process of detection, while theories predominate in the process of recognition. The quality of the scientific identification is thus determined by a system of resolution comprised of two components: methods and theories. It is commonly observed that the development of research methods has outpaced the development of theories particularly in the social sciences. For that reason it is not surprising that it is still common to go back to the nineteenth-century founding fathers to look for theoretical guidance, whereas the research methods and the data-gathering techniques we use today are extremely more sophisticated than those available in the nineteenth century. This means that the resolution level of our methods is higher than the resolution level of our theories and, consequently, that while the quality of scientific detection tends to be fine-grain, the quality of scientific recognition tends to be coarse-grain. In other words, our detection capabilities by far exceed our recognition capabilities. [@santos_toward_2001 p.162]

## cfp

The seventh Annual Conference of the School of Performing Arts (University of Malta) considers knowledge in relation to performing arts practices. More specifically, the conference aims to explore, question, and discuss the different types of ‘knowledges’ that emerge from or are involved in performing arts practices including creation, production, performance, and spectatorship.

The conference’s focus on performing arts practices—dance, theatre, and music—acknowledges an affinity with Performance Studies, which originated in American universities as a new ‘knowledge formation’ (Kirshenblatt-Gimblett 1999) with the aim to integrate performance into interdisciplinary scholarship and offer a counterbalance to the emphasis on texts and literature within cultural studies. The conference focus on practices is also strongly connected to developments originating around the same time for artistic research in the context of European higher education. The debates about artistic research have posited basic questions about the constitution of knowledge and its valorisation (Borgdorff 2012). The conditions and opportunities for artistic research in higher education continue to evolve, but many questions about its status and relevance, in connection to knowledge production in particular, remain.

The aim of Performance Knowledges is to offer an opportunity to refresh some of these discussions and debates through a focus on performing arts from the perspectives of transmission, composition, and praxis. This is a chance to include research cultures working at the borderline with the social and cognitive sciences, where the vantage point of the performing arts should provoke a robust discussion of embodied and relational forms of knowledge. It also encourages participants to rethink how in composition and transmission processes knowledge is diversified into different types, including tacit knowledge—with emphasis on process and experience (Polanyi 1958). This should include addressing the question of skill—which is so often overlooked in academic debates about the subject.

We are looking for presentations that engage with questions of varieties, generation, transmission, and implications of performance knowledges. We are looking for inter- and multidisciplinary approaches that might contribute to the analysis of ways of knowing in the performing arts, and to the scholarly study of collaborative encounters between directors, choreographers, composers, performers, designers, and spectators. We are particularly interested in alternative and diverse conceptualisations of practice-generating knowledges, as well as knowledge-generating practices,

Commit message:

add context and why this matters to ideas for malta presentation

20191129 - performance knowledges conference malta/20191129 - initial thinking for malta.md, after:

# 20191129 - initial thinking


## 20200106 - why this matters

- what is the background for this? where has it come from? 
    + Efva Lilja [@lilja_words_2003]
    + what can't be named (unsayable) - my presentation
    + Biggs 2002 [@biggs_editorial_2002]
    + Dilthey (in Mignolo)
    + Ellis [@ellis_that_2018]
- so what? 
    + go through stuff from Ellis 2018 -- what is at stake for dance
    + broader picture is about data and datafication (other words from Snowden and Shoshana)
    + practice of humility - what humility (and perhaps skepticism?) get us
- problem of preaching humility in a 'so what?' section. That is, I'm OK with the possibility that none of this matters. Indeed, it doesn't matter. Or something like that.

## edit bin from abstract

"as a challenge to the elemental right to the future tense, which accounts for the individual’s ability to imagine, intend, promise, and construct a future" [@zuboff_age_2019]

feeding "on every aspect of every human’s experience. [@zuboff_age_2019]"

>Why must everything be explained, or be possible to translate, why pick it all to bits—as though it were only a camouflage for something else? MADNESS. We hide too easily behind all the words. [@lilja_words_2003 p.11]



"I believe that capitalism, colonialist thinking, loneliness, and an abusive stance toward the environment all coproduce one another" [@odell_how_2019]

- huge reduction in scale 
- discuss a simple exploratory period of research through practice of dance; more specifically: authentic movement
- with Australian choreographer and dancer Shaun McLeod
- high resolution experiences, low resolution traces of the project
- calling on decolonial epistemologies: hubris of the zero point
- detached and neutral point of observation
- I'm involved in something quite unlike this. 
- politically dangerous because I'm borrowing (polite way of saying it) work of scholars working deeply with decoloniality

"Epistemic disobedience means to delink from the illusion of the zero point epistemology." -- Mignolo [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

>We cannot evaluate the current trajectory of information civilization without a clear appreciation that technology is not and never can be a thing in itself, isolated from economics and society. This means that technological inevitability does not exist. Technologies are always economic means, not ends in themselves: in modern times, technology’s DNA comes already patterned by what the sociologist Max Weber called the “economic orientation.”
Economic ends, Weber observed, are always intrinsic to technology’s development and deployment. “Economic action” determines objectives, whereas technology provides “appropriate means.” In Weber’s framing, “The fact that what is called the technological development of modern times has been so largely oriented economically to profit-making is one of the fundamental facts of the history of technology.” [@zuboff_age_2019]

## mignolo - 2009 - epistemic disobedience 

>From a detached and neutral point of observation (that Colombian philosopher Santiago Castro-Gómez (2007) describes as the _hubris of the zero point_), the knowing subject maps the world and its problems, classifies people and projects into what is good for them. Today that assumption is no longer tenable, although there are still many believers. [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

- discuss zero point
- "the hubris of the zero point"
- detached and neutral point of observation
- I'm involved in something quite unlike this. 
- politically dangerous because I'm borrowing (polite way of saying it) work of scholars working deeply with decoloniality

>By setting the scenario in terms of geo- and body-politics I am starting and departing from already familiar notions of ‘situated knowledges’. Sure, all knowledges are situated and every knowledge is constructed. But that is just the beginning. The question is: who, when, why is constructing knowledges (Mignolo, 1999, 2005 [1995])? [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

"Epistemic disobedience means to delink from the illusion of the zero point epistemology." -- Mignolo [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

>Who and when, why and where is knowledge generated (rather than produced, like cars or cell phones)? Asking these questions means to shift the attention from the enunciated to the enunciation. And by so doing, turning Descartes’s dictum inside out: rather than assuming that thinking comes before being, one assumes instead that it is a racially marked body in a geo-historical marked space that feels the urge or get the call to speak, to articulate, in whatever semiotic system, the urge that makes of living organisms ‘human’ beings. [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

-- generated v produced. The (racially) marked body. Feels urge. The enunciation. Who and when, why and where? 
-- these are all very critical questions.

>By setting the scenario in terms of geo- and body-politics I am starting and departing from already familiar notions of ‘situated knowledges’. Sure, all knowledges are situated and every knowledge is constructed. But that is just the beginning. The question is: who, when, why is constructing knowledges (Mignolo, 1999, 2005 [1995])? Why did eurocentered epistemology conceal its own geo-historical and bio-graphical locations and succeed in creating the idea of universal knowledge as if the knowing subjects were also universal? This illusion is pervasive today in the social sciences, the humanities, the natural sciences and the professional schools. Epistemic disobedience means to delink from the illusion of the zero point epistemology. [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

-- who, when, why is constructing knowledges?
-- humble claims (see p.162)
-- not claiming originality (p.162 Mignolo) but contributing to growing processes

"to allow the silences to build arguments to confront those who take ‘originality’ as the ultimate criterion for the final judgment" -- Mignolo [-@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.162]

"it is necessary to focus on the knower rather than on the known." - Mignolo [-@mignolo_epistemic_2009 162]. But I'm kind of interested in the known as well. How to balance these?  Not possible I suspect (because mine is not really a decolonial project). But the question of _who_ is knowing remains critical: taste, judgement, assumptions. In something as slippery as PaR that is kind of all we have. We are those knowledge producers (so so different from generators). As he says, "like cell phones". What does this make it possible to see and experience? 

Focus on enunciation (see p.163 Mignolo)


>I have supported in the past those who maintain that it is not enough to change the content of the conversation, that it is of the essence to change the terms of the conversation. Changing the terms of the conversation implies going beyond disciplinary or interdisciplinary controversies and the conflict of interpretations. As far as controversies and interpretations remain within the same rules of the game (terms of the conversation), the control of knowledge is not called into question. And in order to call into question the modern/colonial foundation of the control of knowledge, it is necessary to focus on the knower rather than on the known. It means to go to the very assumptions that sustain locus enunciations. [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.162]

>Wilhelm Dilthey (1991) came up with his ground-breaking epistemic distinction between ideographic and nomothetic sciences, the first concerned with meaning and interpretations, the second with laws and explanations. [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.164]

In 1991 Wilhem Dilthey described the "epistemic distinction between ideographic and nomothetic sciences" [@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.164]. Ideographic sciences are concerned with meaning and interpretations, and nomothetic with laws and explanations.


>what I’m suggesting is that we take a protective stance toward ourselves, each other, and whatever is left of what makes us human—including the alliances that sustain and surprise us. I’m suggesting that we protect our spaces and our time for non-instrumental, noncommercial activity and thought, for maintenance, for care, for conviviality. And I’m suggesting that we fiercely protect our human animality against all technologies that actively ignore and disdain the body, the bodies of other beings, and the body of the landscape that we inhabit. [@odell_how_2019]


## de Sousa Santos - 2001 - epistemology of blindness


>In my view, resolution, just as scale and perspective, is at the core of modern science and operates at two different levels: the level of methodology and the level of theory. Both methods and theories are present in the scientific identification of objects to be analyzed; but methods predominate in the process of detection, while theories predominate in the process of recognition. The quality of the scientific identification is thus determined by a system of resolution comprised of two components: methods and theories. It is commonly observed that the development of research methods has outpaced the development of theories particularly in the social sciences. For that reason it is not surprising that it is still common to go back to the nineteenth-century founding fathers to look for theoretical guidance, whereas the research methods and the data-gathering techniques we use today are extremely more sophisticated than those available in the nineteenth century. This means that the resolution level of our methods is higher than the resolution level of our theories and, consequently, that while the quality of scientific detection tends to be fine-grain, the quality of scientific recognition tends to be coarse-grain. In other words, our detection capabilities by far exceed our recognition capabilities. [@santos_toward_2001 p.162]

## cfp

The seventh Annual Conference of the School of Performing Arts (University of Malta) considers knowledge in relation to performing arts practices. More specifically, the conference aims to explore, question, and discuss the different types of ‘knowledges’ that emerge from or are involved in performing arts practices including creation, production, performance, and spectatorship.

The conference’s focus on performing arts practices—dance, theatre, and music—acknowledges an affinity with Performance Studies, which originated in American universities as a new ‘knowledge formation’ (Kirshenblatt-Gimblett 1999) with the aim to integrate performance into interdisciplinary scholarship and offer a counterbalance to the emphasis on texts and literature within cultural studies. The conference focus on practices is also strongly connected to developments originating around the same time for artistic research in the context of European higher education. The debates about artistic research have posited basic questions about the constitution of knowledge and its valorisation (Borgdorff 2012). The conditions and opportunities for artistic research in higher education continue to evolve, but many questions about its status and relevance, in connection to knowledge production in particular, remain.

The aim of Performance Knowledges is to offer an opportunity to refresh some of these discussions and debates through a focus on performing arts from the perspectives of transmission, composition, and praxis. This is a chance to include research cultures working at the borderline with the social and cognitive sciences, where the vantage point of the performing arts should provoke a robust discussion of embodied and relational forms of knowledge. It also encourages participants to rethink how in composition and transmission processes knowledge is diversified into different types, including tacit knowledge—with emphasis on process and experience (Polanyi 1958). This should include addressing the question of skill—which is so often overlooked in academic debates about the subject.

We are looking for presentations that engage with questions of varieties, generation, transmission, and implications of performance knowledges. We are looking for inter- and multidisciplinary approaches that might contribute to the analysis of ways of knowing in the performing arts, and to the scholarly study of collaborative encounters between directors, choreographers, composers, performers, designers, and spectators. We are particularly interested in alternative and diverse conceptualisations of practice-generating knowledges, as well as knowledge-generating practices,
