20191129 - performance knowledges conference malta/20200225 - malta abstract - edit bin.md, before:

# malta - edit bin

# edit bin


; a practice of process-based movement experiments that involved a discipline of non-judgement, invisible experiences and semi-automated photography

But I also like to imagine there is a middle ground as well; phenomena that are sensuously present in the experience _and_ visible to the watcher. For example, would I be able to say that with my experience as a dancer and watcher of others dancing, I saw qualities of understanding, decision making, attention and perhaps even know-how when Shaun was dancing? And if so, what was it I was seeing? I imagine it would be difficult to agree on what I was seeing that made me think or feel those things. It makes me think we are dealing with an epistemic house of cards and I am quite happy with that idea. 

With these cards falling all around me I remain comfortable thinking -- or should that be _believing_ -- that Shaun and I both _formed_ examples of two people revealing attention and sensitivity to the body. 

It fascinates me that Choinière also includes the word _skill_ in her description, as if implicitly calling on the phronetic know-how of Aristotle, David Carr and Gilbert Ryle.[@ellis_that_2018]

It's like that scene in Annie Hall where a movie producer says, "Right now it's only a notion, but I think I can get money to make it into a concept, and later turn it into an idea."[@pinker_sense_2014] 

The same with embodied intelligence, and even embodied awareness. We often also use words interchangeably as if they might be the same thing: somatic for embodied or physical, somatic or physical for body, intelligence for knowledge.

A number of seemingly un-related ideas and possibilities that happened to end up together. 

>For the body cannot be easily contained by the consumption imperative. It discovers its own sexual and political being and overflows autonomously in many other directions as well. Or, as in the case of the state policies of economic and cultural austerity that have increasingly been imposed upon a recalcitrant underlying population, the body refuses to disappear as a subject.

-- Stanley Aronwitz, foreward in Martin's *Performance as a Political Act* [-@martin_performance_1990 p.viii] 



In effect, I robbed de Sousa Santos of his thinking in a particular field and for a particular context, to help make sense of the relationship between experience and representation in the work with Shaun. Or perhaps I just borrowed his thinking. It's definitely different though from a citation because he was writing for an utterly different context, and with utterly different ambitions for how the thinking might be met and used. It's not a loan either. More like digital theft when the owner doesn't lose any materials or things, after all his thinking as presented in that writing is endlessly reproducible. But perhaps some of his writing's aura or value is diluted as it is dropped into a different world, with different ideologies, different practices, and different needs? But I digress.

And it's also important to note that what I now understand differently are not insights into the nature and experience of our sensitised and sensitising bodies. In this research, the state, quality or even quantity of body-based understanding -- sensuous presence in experience -- was merely a thing. But it wasn't any _thing_ special, and it wasn't anything that people haven't already been doing for a long long time in Authentic Movement. 

like two people sitting in the same room at a party who end up deeply in love for the rest of their lives. 

Research insights invariably reveal what we care about as individuals, and what might matter to us most as a community. The following insights (or emergent understandings) are no different. 

It's not unlike sniffing deeply into a glass of red wine and saying the words "cinnamon and blackcurrant" as some friends are about to try the same wine. They are infected by the idea of the scents, not the scents themselves, but nevertheless will swear blind they can taste cinnamon and blackcurrent. 

Or here is the artist-scholar Andrea Davidson: 

>For dance practitioners, somatic intelligence constitutes a model of corporeal experience: a form of embodied knowledge that can also be described as a skill for sensing, relating and ‘revealing'.[@davidson_somatics_2013 p.6]

## phones, feelings and our radically analogue bodies

I imagine the body as a wild space of feelings. [gif] Yes feelings. Those things that drive all conversations, all experiences. Nuanced, primitive, primal. All that we are saying, all that we are hearing, all that we are communicating and proposing, is driven by feelings: 

>conversations do not just involve feelings, they are at their very core about feelings" [@stone_difficult_2003 p.13]

To feel smart, to feel less clumsy, to feel busy, to avoid the fear of failure, to feel wanted or needed, to feel successful, to be repelled by ambition, to feel less lonely, to be respected, valued, loved even. To feel superior, less inferior, to feel astonished, eager, energetic, confused, excited, significant or insignificant. 

The wild spaces of our analogue bodies understand these things. I am never just this or that, never just busy or needy, never just superior or inferior. And with all these feelings, all these states and traits, memories and traumas, the ghosts of our pasts, we are all dancing some kind of dance. They are dances of love and laughter, dances of shame and embarrassment, dances of patience and care, dances of pride and pleasure, of honesty and lies. I mean, _who are you_ if there's nothing wrong with you? 
 
[dance - for camera - Bowie's sound and vision, playback on computer - just through the speakers] 


In February 2020 the German artist Simon Weckert put 99 smartphones into a small red trolley, walked around Berlin and created what he called a "virtual traffic jam" in Google Maps.[@weckert_google_2020]

In January 2019, the social psychologist Shoshana Zuboff published a book called _Surveillance Capitalism_. In it she uses the word _rendition_ to describe a two-sided process. On one side are the technologies of surveillance capitalism that are designed to "render our experience into data, as in rendering oil from fat".[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.1] On the other side is the fact that "every time we encounter a digital interface we make our experience available to 'datafication'".[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.1] We _render_ "unto surveillance capitalism" a continuous supply of raw materials. 

According to Zuboff, the rendition of our bodies begins quite simply with our phones.[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.2] 

Let's begin by turning off our mobile phones. Turning them off completely. Humour me. There's no need to be jaded or cynical. There's time for that in the next session. We can quietly create the opposite of Weckert's virtual traffic jam: we can create a gap in the geolocation map. A small absence. A silence. It's just us. Untracked for 15 minutes. Going dark. Bliss. We can create a wild space. Like the body. A wild space: unpredictable and inextractable. A place for our analogue selves and our radically analogue bodies. A place where something is not simply yes or no, this or that, 1 or 0, anything but boolean, untouched, untouchable. A body that, even just briefly, resists the facts and fictions of sampling, the logic and ideology of data, and the datafication of the world. 

## phones, feelings and our radically analogue bodies

I imagine the body as a wild space of feelings. [gif] Yes feelings. Those things that drive all conversations, all experiences. Nuanced, primitive, primal. All that we are saying, all that we are hearing, all that we are communicating and proposing, is driven by feelings: 

>conversations do not just involve feelings, they are at their very core about feelings" [@stone_difficult_2003 p.13]

To feel smart, to feel less clumsy, to feel busy, to avoid the fear of failure, to feel wanted or needed, to feel successful, to be repelled by ambition, to feel less lonely, to be respected, valued, loved even. To feel superior, less inferior, to feel astonished, eager, energetic, confused, excited, significant or insignificant. 

The wild spaces of our analogue bodies understand these things. I am never just this or that, never just busy or needy, never just superior or inferior. And with all these feelings, all these states and traits, memories and traumas, the ghosts of our pasts, we are all dancing some kind of dance. They are dances of love and laughter, dances of shame and embarrassment, dances of patience and care, dances of pride and pleasure, of honesty and lies. I mean, _who are you_ if there's nothing wrong with you? 
 
[dance - for camera - Bowie's sound and vision, playback on computer - just through the speakers] 

He writes:

>In sum, metadata can tell your surveillant virtually everything they’d ever want or need to know about you, except what’s actually going on inside your head.

-- Edward Snowden[-@snowden_permanent_2019 Chapter 16]


>If the key epistemic question is "who, when, why is constructing knowledges?"[@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160] then in this presentation I will attempt to discuss the epistemic _why_ of experiences that are unable to be discussed. They are experiences of politics and humility that underpin the radically analogue nature of the human body; they are experiences that exceed "algorithmic description";[@odell_how_2019 p.xvi] perhaps they are even experiences or _acts_ of "epistemic disobedience".[@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

When our dreams for new projects were killed by shitty VHS recordings.

>technologies that extend perception, allowing human beings to see, touch, feel, hear, manipulate and understand what to date has remained invisible to the senses or hidden in matter, the body and the universe. [@davidson_somatics_2013 p.5] 
- am I describing or imagining the limits of tech? the directionality of this quote is odd in context of this research

research is fundamentally about noticing change. that we understand something differently as a consequence of spending time with it. could be intervention, could be a phenomenon. caveat that noticing no change is something as well.

Yet even given the vagaries and ambiguities of doing embodied research that yields embodied knowledge, t

I'm going to abandon the term _embody_ (or any of its constructions) now. I suggest you try it. It's like being let off some crazy circular train that has no stops. 

>My experience in dance and dance research is that the problem is more about not even recognising that, as a consequence of being human, we are engaged in a kind of dilution of experience and attention.[@ellis_not_2016]

>The challenge then becomes to build perceptual tools and systems of communication with others (and with ourselves) that help reveal the things we want to see and hear, and that we imagine we have seen and heard.[@ellis_not_2016]

I wonder if we can we all agree that there was embodied knowledge in that laboratory dance space? But this in itself is an absurd question. I mean when is there not embodied knowledge in any room? It's here now. We don't have to be moving. So, do we then mean a certain level or quantity of embodied knowledge? Is there some kind of threshold when embodied knowledge becomes useful or noticeable? Or when we use the term 'embodied research' do we just mean research that focuses on the body by people with bodies trained and sensitised to the complexities of the moving, sensing body? Perhaps I am being provocatively simplistic or stubborn here but sometimes it sure feels as if that embodied emperor isn't wearing any clothes; not that I'd want to point that out.

proxy of embodied knowledge devalues rich experiences that are unable to be discussed. Sheets-Johnstone and Ingold. finger pointing moon.


>Why is it then that dance, with its legitimate claim to specialized knowledge of the body, has never been consulted in these debates? [@davidson_somatics_2013 p.4]

>For dance practitioners, somatic intelligence constitutes a model of corporeal experience: a form of embodied knowledge that can also be described as a skill for sensing, relating and ‘revealing’.[@davidson_somatics_2013 p.6]

>the body’s role as privileged site in the construction of knowledge [@davidson_somatics_2013 p.11]

>Furthermore, Damásio’s theory emphasizes that notions like experience, consciousness and perception are not abstract concepts, but are active embodied practices resulting from a continuous, recursive interaction with the environment.[@de_lima_trans-meaning_2013 p.24]


relate 'the truth' to OED definition of embodied.

Ben Spatz recently advertised a workshop in which he describes ... 
Journal of Embodied Research.
Does that mean all the other journals only handle disembodied research? 

But the clincher is that we assuming an enormous amount based on what is available to our senses. What if we -- meaning dance researchers -- are simply projecting a whole lot of 

Embodied knowledge: knowledge held in or by the body. To communicate it we must disembody it. But if disembodied where does it reside? In 

Add how Ingold refutes this idea of 'holding'. (and Sheets-Johnstone)

from Choinere quote:

three abstract terms in one sentence 
somatic intelligence is subset of physical intelligence?
somatic intelligence as heightened sensitivity: but more than who? 
I don't get the 'increased' bit. 
what are the other forms? 
to sense what? to perceive what?
to relate to whom or what?

no attempt  And if I stop and think about what she might mean by "increased skill" when it comes to any form of intelligence it seems as if us dance scholars are desperate to make features out of bugs.

But what about _embodied actions_ or _embodied movements_ or even _embodied dance_? These are all terms common in dance practice and scholarship. Actions, movements and dance are concepts that are already primarily corporeal, at least in their common usage. It's as if in these examples the word _embodied_ acts as an adjectival modifier to help make the nouns more specific, not unlike _fast_ or _hot_ or _sexy_. As in fast actions, hot movements and sexy dance. But with _embodied_ as a modifier of human action this does not seem quite right. I suspect that when we describe an action as _embodied_ we are ascribing some quality of attention or awareness to that action. That such embodied actions are not trivially placed on the outside of the body, but rather invested deeply within the body. The question of how it is that we might recognise embodied actions over what I could call _disembodied actions_ is an entirely different problem. (Sheets-Johnston 2011 discusses disembodiment)

That was a question that occurred to us early in the practice. add here about reading Zuboff. A coincidence. 

I was reading Zuboff then but it seemed to chime with ideas about individuation. But later, while still reading her (I am indeed a slow reader) ... datafication. (for a different project).

I make no claims about the uniqueness of the practice itself.

Except one experiment with music when Shaun had what can only be described as a bad trip. 

did nothing at all seemingly related nearly as fancy or smart as Weckert or Zuboff. Nor did we do anything that seems to be related. Authentic movement.

It doesn't matter how this dance is recorded, how this dance ends up online or even on this screen, there exists a remarkable -- and remarkably beautiful -- gap in resolution between the dance and its digitally recorded other. This gap is not about how it looks, the shapes in space, the timings, the gradations and articulations of joints, even the tone of muscles: the very very many things that make up the dancing body. Yes, the dancing is performative, a digital version formative. And that gap in resolution ...

Not something lost, something missing. 

, in reality, formative, rather than performative. s so true that our wildly and radically analogue bodies are performative, and capable of performance. It's not that this dance is performative, but also that it's formative. 

Divert here into a few brief notes on embodied knowledge. Wikipedia: diverts to tacit knowledge. List here from that one article of various terms that could arguably mean the same (or similar) thing. The lack of precision is chronically characteristic of so much dance scholarship that discusses embodied knowledge. 

worth glenna Batson's thinking? 

Mention Emma's idea: 

>I think for me that at the root of it is the counterpart of dissociation, ie splitting from body experience often caused by trauma. Not sure that’s much help. I do think embodiment exists and its not just having a body but very hard to point to it via language.

and asked myself how it might help understand the discrepanci And it was by robbing de Sousa Santos of his thinking for one context (that of higher and lower resolution levels between theories and methods) that I tore the term _resolution_ from one context and linked it together 

although perhaps if I were really desperate I might make some claims about the inappropriately clumsy role of the smartphone in the practice.


[^ek]: Recent examples include 

[^plethora]: See for example

Commit message:

add edit bin materials from the Malta presentation

20191129 - performance knowledges conference malta/20200225 - malta abstract - edit bin.md, after:

# malta - edit bin

# edit bin

I just want to acknowledge that in the late northern summer last year Shaun and I were fabulously lost in the "mangle of practice"[@pickering_mangle_1995] and not so able to see the wood for the trees.

to be datafied  Zuboff uses the word _rendition_ to describe a two-sided process. On one side are the technologies of surveillance capitalism that are designed to "render our experience into data, as in rendering oil from fat".[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.1] On the other side is the fact that "every time we encounter a digital interface we make our experience available to 'datafication'".[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.1] We _render_ "unto surveillance capitalism" a continuous supply of raw materials. 

But being sensuously present in our experience as artist-scholars is not likely to be as simple as it might sound. The philosopher Alva Noë wrote that "hearing, perceiving, learning, is always a matter of using what you know to make sense of what is on offer."[@noe_art_2015] How then are we to notice difference or change when we can only know what we know and "don't know what we are looking for?"[@ellis_not_2016] 

This also feels odd because it was as if the intensely collaborative practice of movement with Shaun morphed into a more isolated practice of words and thought. Which is not to say that these ideas belong to me. As Judith Butler has said, "We are worldless without one another".[@butler_we_2017]


; a practice of process-based movement experiments that involved a discipline of non-judgement, invisible experiences and semi-automated photography

But I also like to imagine there is a middle ground as well; phenomena that are sensuously present in the experience _and_ visible to the watcher. For example, would I be able to say that with my experience as a dancer and watcher of others dancing, I saw qualities of understanding, decision making, attention and perhaps even know-how when Shaun was dancing? And if so, what was it I was seeing? I imagine it would be difficult to agree on what I was seeing that made me think or feel those things. It makes me think we are dealing with an epistemic house of cards and I am quite happy with that idea. 

With these cards falling all around me I remain comfortable thinking -- or should that be _believing_ -- that Shaun and I both _formed_ examples of two people revealing attention and sensitivity to the body. 

It fascinates me that Choinière also includes the word _skill_ in her description, as if implicitly calling on the phronetic know-how of Aristotle, David Carr and Gilbert Ryle.[@ellis_that_2018]

It's like that scene in Annie Hall where a movie producer says, "Right now it's only a notion, but I think I can get money to make it into a concept, and later turn it into an idea."[@pinker_sense_2014] 

The same with embodied intelligence, and even embodied awareness. We often also use words interchangeably as if they might be the same thing: somatic for embodied or physical, somatic or physical for body, intelligence for knowledge.

A number of seemingly un-related ideas and possibilities that happened to end up together. 

>For the body cannot be easily contained by the consumption imperative. It discovers its own sexual and political being and overflows autonomously in many other directions as well. Or, as in the case of the state policies of economic and cultural austerity that have increasingly been imposed upon a recalcitrant underlying population, the body refuses to disappear as a subject.

-- Stanley Aronwitz, foreward in Martin's *Performance as a Political Act* [-@martin_performance_1990 p.viii] 



In effect, I robbed de Sousa Santos of his thinking in a particular field and for a particular context, to help make sense of the relationship between experience and representation in the work with Shaun. Or perhaps I just borrowed his thinking. It's definitely different though from a citation because he was writing for an utterly different context, and with utterly different ambitions for how the thinking might be met and used. It's not a loan either. More like digital theft when the owner doesn't lose any materials or things, after all his thinking as presented in that writing is endlessly reproducible. But perhaps some of his writing's aura or value is diluted as it is dropped into a different world, with different ideologies, different practices, and different needs? But I digress.

And it's also important to note that what I now understand differently are not insights into the nature and experience of our sensitised and sensitising bodies. In this research, the state, quality or even quantity of body-based understanding -- sensuous presence in experience -- was merely a thing. But it wasn't any _thing_ special, and it wasn't anything that people haven't already been doing for a long long time in Authentic Movement. 

like two people sitting in the same room at a party who end up deeply in love for the rest of their lives. 

Research insights invariably reveal what we care about as individuals, and what might matter to us most as a community. The following insights (or emergent understandings) are no different. 

It's not unlike sniffing deeply into a glass of red wine and saying the words "cinnamon and blackcurrant" as some friends are about to try the same wine. They are infected by the idea of the scents, not the scents themselves, but nevertheless will swear blind they can taste cinnamon and blackcurrent. 

Or here is the artist-scholar Andrea Davidson: 

>For dance practitioners, somatic intelligence constitutes a model of corporeal experience: a form of embodied knowledge that can also be described as a skill for sensing, relating and ‘revealing'.[@davidson_somatics_2013 p.6]

## phones, feelings and our radically analogue bodies

I imagine the body as a wild space of feelings. [gif] Yes feelings. Those things that drive all conversations, all experiences. Nuanced, primitive, primal. All that we are saying, all that we are hearing, all that we are communicating and proposing, is driven by feelings: 

>conversations do not just involve feelings, they are at their very core about feelings" [@stone_difficult_2003 p.13]

To feel smart, to feel less clumsy, to feel busy, to avoid the fear of failure, to feel wanted or needed, to feel successful, to be repelled by ambition, to feel less lonely, to be respected, valued, loved even. To feel superior, less inferior, to feel astonished, eager, energetic, confused, excited, significant or insignificant. 

The wild spaces of our analogue bodies understand these things. I am never just this or that, never just busy or needy, never just superior or inferior. And with all these feelings, all these states and traits, memories and traumas, the ghosts of our pasts, we are all dancing some kind of dance. They are dances of love and laughter, dances of shame and embarrassment, dances of patience and care, dances of pride and pleasure, of honesty and lies. I mean, _who are you_ if there's nothing wrong with you? 
 
[dance - for camera - Bowie's sound and vision, playback on computer - just through the speakers] 


In February 2020 the German artist Simon Weckert put 99 smartphones into a small red trolley, walked around Berlin and created what he called a "virtual traffic jam" in Google Maps.[@weckert_google_2020]

In January 2019, the social psychologist Shoshana Zuboff published a book called _Surveillance Capitalism_. In it she uses the word _rendition_ to describe a two-sided process. On one side are the technologies of surveillance capitalism that are designed to "render our experience into data, as in rendering oil from fat".[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.1] On the other side is the fact that "every time we encounter a digital interface we make our experience available to 'datafication'".[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.1] We _render_ "unto surveillance capitalism" a continuous supply of raw materials. 

According to Zuboff, the rendition of our bodies begins quite simply with our phones.[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.2] 

Let's begin by turning off our mobile phones. Turning them off completely. Humour me. There's no need to be jaded or cynical. There's time for that in the next session. We can quietly create the opposite of Weckert's virtual traffic jam: we can create a gap in the geolocation map. A small absence. A silence. It's just us. Untracked for 15 minutes. Going dark. Bliss. We can create a wild space. Like the body. A wild space: unpredictable and inextractable. A place for our analogue selves and our radically analogue bodies. A place where something is not simply yes or no, this or that, 1 or 0, anything but boolean, untouched, untouchable. A body that, even just briefly, resists the facts and fictions of sampling, the logic and ideology of data, and the datafication of the world. 

## phones, feelings and our radically analogue bodies

I imagine the body as a wild space of feelings. [gif] Yes feelings. Those things that drive all conversations, all experiences. Nuanced, primitive, primal. All that we are saying, all that we are hearing, all that we are communicating and proposing, is driven by feelings: 

>conversations do not just involve feelings, they are at their very core about feelings" [@stone_difficult_2003 p.13]

To feel smart, to feel less clumsy, to feel busy, to avoid the fear of failure, to feel wanted or needed, to feel successful, to be repelled by ambition, to feel less lonely, to be respected, valued, loved even. To feel superior, less inferior, to feel astonished, eager, energetic, confused, excited, significant or insignificant. 

The wild spaces of our analogue bodies understand these things. I am never just this or that, never just busy or needy, never just superior or inferior. And with all these feelings, all these states and traits, memories and traumas, the ghosts of our pasts, we are all dancing some kind of dance. They are dances of love and laughter, dances of shame and embarrassment, dances of patience and care, dances of pride and pleasure, of honesty and lies. I mean, _who are you_ if there's nothing wrong with you? 
 
[dance - for camera - Bowie's sound and vision, playback on computer - just through the speakers] 

He writes:

>In sum, metadata can tell your surveillant virtually everything they’d ever want or need to know about you, except what’s actually going on inside your head.

-- Edward Snowden[-@snowden_permanent_2019 Chapter 16]


>If the key epistemic question is "who, when, why is constructing knowledges?"[@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160] then in this presentation I will attempt to discuss the epistemic _why_ of experiences that are unable to be discussed. They are experiences of politics and humility that underpin the radically analogue nature of the human body; they are experiences that exceed "algorithmic description";[@odell_how_2019 p.xvi] perhaps they are even experiences or _acts_ of "epistemic disobedience".[@mignolo_epistemic_2009 p.160]

When our dreams for new projects were killed by shitty VHS recordings.

>technologies that extend perception, allowing human beings to see, touch, feel, hear, manipulate and understand what to date has remained invisible to the senses or hidden in matter, the body and the universe. [@davidson_somatics_2013 p.5] 
- am I describing or imagining the limits of tech? the directionality of this quote is odd in context of this research

research is fundamentally about noticing change. that we understand something differently as a consequence of spending time with it. could be intervention, could be a phenomenon. caveat that noticing no change is something as well.

Yet even given the vagaries and ambiguities of doing embodied research that yields embodied knowledge, t

I'm going to abandon the term _embody_ (or any of its constructions) now. I suggest you try it. It's like being let off some crazy circular train that has no stops. 

>My experience in dance and dance research is that the problem is more about not even recognising that, as a consequence of being human, we are engaged in a kind of dilution of experience and attention.[@ellis_not_2016]

>The challenge then becomes to build perceptual tools and systems of communication with others (and with ourselves) that help reveal the things we want to see and hear, and that we imagine we have seen and heard.[@ellis_not_2016]

I wonder if we can we all agree that there was embodied knowledge in that laboratory dance space? But this in itself is an absurd question. I mean when is there not embodied knowledge in any room? It's here now. We don't have to be moving. So, do we then mean a certain level or quantity of embodied knowledge? Is there some kind of threshold when embodied knowledge becomes useful or noticeable? Or when we use the term 'embodied research' do we just mean research that focuses on the body by people with bodies trained and sensitised to the complexities of the moving, sensing body? Perhaps I am being provocatively simplistic or stubborn here but sometimes it sure feels as if that embodied emperor isn't wearing any clothes; not that I'd want to point that out.

proxy of embodied knowledge devalues rich experiences that are unable to be discussed. Sheets-Johnstone and Ingold. finger pointing moon.


>Why is it then that dance, with its legitimate claim to specialized knowledge of the body, has never been consulted in these debates? [@davidson_somatics_2013 p.4]

>For dance practitioners, somatic intelligence constitutes a model of corporeal experience: a form of embodied knowledge that can also be described as a skill for sensing, relating and ‘revealing’.[@davidson_somatics_2013 p.6]

>the body’s role as privileged site in the construction of knowledge [@davidson_somatics_2013 p.11]

>Furthermore, Damásio’s theory emphasizes that notions like experience, consciousness and perception are not abstract concepts, but are active embodied practices resulting from a continuous, recursive interaction with the environment.[@de_lima_trans-meaning_2013 p.24]


relate 'the truth' to OED definition of embodied.

Ben Spatz recently advertised a workshop in which he describes ... 
Journal of Embodied Research.
Does that mean all the other journals only handle disembodied research? 

But the clincher is that we assuming an enormous amount based on what is available to our senses. What if we -- meaning dance researchers -- are simply projecting a whole lot of 

Embodied knowledge: knowledge held in or by the body. To communicate it we must disembody it. But if disembodied where does it reside? In 

Add how Ingold refutes this idea of 'holding'. (and Sheets-Johnstone)

from Choinere quote:

three abstract terms in one sentence 
somatic intelligence is subset of physical intelligence?
somatic intelligence as heightened sensitivity: but more than who? 
I don't get the 'increased' bit. 
what are the other forms? 
to sense what? to perceive what?
to relate to whom or what?

no attempt  And if I stop and think about what she might mean by "increased skill" when it comes to any form of intelligence it seems as if us dance scholars are desperate to make features out of bugs.

But what about _embodied actions_ or _embodied movements_ or even _embodied dance_? These are all terms common in dance practice and scholarship. Actions, movements and dance are concepts that are already primarily corporeal, at least in their common usage. It's as if in these examples the word _embodied_ acts as an adjectival modifier to help make the nouns more specific, not unlike _fast_ or _hot_ or _sexy_. As in fast actions, hot movements and sexy dance. But with _embodied_ as a modifier of human action this does not seem quite right. I suspect that when we describe an action as _embodied_ we are ascribing some quality of attention or awareness to that action. That such embodied actions are not trivially placed on the outside of the body, but rather invested deeply within the body. The question of how it is that we might recognise embodied actions over what I could call _disembodied actions_ is an entirely different problem. (Sheets-Johnston 2011 discusses disembodiment)

That was a question that occurred to us early in the practice. add here about reading Zuboff. A coincidence. 

I was reading Zuboff then but it seemed to chime with ideas about individuation. But later, while still reading her (I am indeed a slow reader) ... datafication. (for a different project).

I make no claims about the uniqueness of the practice itself.

Except one experiment with music when Shaun had what can only be described as a bad trip. 

did nothing at all seemingly related nearly as fancy or smart as Weckert or Zuboff. Nor did we do anything that seems to be related. Authentic movement.

It doesn't matter how this dance is recorded, how this dance ends up online or even on this screen, there exists a remarkable -- and remarkably beautiful -- gap in resolution between the dance and its digitally recorded other. This gap is not about how it looks, the shapes in space, the timings, the gradations and articulations of joints, even the tone of muscles: the very very many things that make up the dancing body. Yes, the dancing is performative, a digital version formative. And that gap in resolution ...

Not something lost, something missing. 

, in reality, formative, rather than performative. s so true that our wildly and radically analogue bodies are performative, and capable of performance. It's not that this dance is performative, but also that it's formative. 

Divert here into a few brief notes on embodied knowledge. Wikipedia: diverts to tacit knowledge. List here from that one article of various terms that could arguably mean the same (or similar) thing. The lack of precision is chronically characteristic of so much dance scholarship that discusses embodied knowledge. 

worth glenna Batson's thinking? 

Mention Emma's idea: 

>I think for me that at the root of it is the counterpart of dissociation, ie splitting from body experience often caused by trauma. Not sure that’s much help. I do think embodiment exists and its not just having a body but very hard to point to it via language.

and asked myself how it might help understand the discrepanci And it was by robbing de Sousa Santos of his thinking for one context (that of higher and lower resolution levels between theories and methods) that I tore the term _resolution_ from one context and linked it together 

although perhaps if I were really desperate I might make some claims about the inappropriately clumsy role of the smartphone in the practice.


[^ek]: Recent examples include 

[^plethora]: See for example
