20191129 - performance knowledges conference malta/20200206 - corporeal epistemics - presentation plan.md, before:

# Corporeal epistemics

In February 2020 the German artist Simon Weckert put 99 smartphones into a small red trolley, walked around Berlin and created what he calls a "virtual traffic jam" in Google Maps.[@weckert_google_2020]

In January 2019, the social psychologist Shoshana Zuboff published a book called _Surveillance Capitalism_. In it she uses the word _rendition_ to describe a two-sided process. On one side are the technologies of surveillance capitalism that are designed to "render our experience into data, as in rendering oil from fat".[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.1] On the other side are "every time we encounter a digital interface we make our experience available to 'datafication'".[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.1] We _render_ "unto surveillance capitalism" a continuous supply of raw materials. 

According to Zuboff, the rendition of our bodies begins quite simply with our phones.[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.2] 

So, let's begin by turning off our mobile phones. Turning them off completely. Humour me. There's no need to be jaded or cynical. There's time for that in the next session. We can quietly create the opposite of Weckert's virtual traffic jam, and in its place create a gap in the map. A small absence. A silence. It's just us. Untracked for 15 minutes. Going dark. Bliss. We can create a wild space. Like the body. A wild space: unpredictable and inextractable. A place for our analogue selves and our radically analogue bodies. A place where something is not simply yes or no, this or that, 1 or 0, anything but boolean, untouched, untouchable. A body that, even just briefly, resists the facts and fictions of sampling, the logic and ideology of data, and the datafication of the world. It is wild space of feelings. Yes feelings. [gif] Those things that drive all conversations, all experiences. Nuanced, primitive, primal. All that we are saying, all that we are hearing, all that we are communicating and proposing, is driven by feelings: 

<iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/p6rh3yrSPF7Fe" width="480" height="262" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe>

https://media.giphy.com/media/QvXe5wq8w94A0/giphy.gif
https://media.giphy.com/media/XWBgzVcODRNSw/giphy.gif
https://media.giphy.com/media/HkQ3Amj9DViec/giphy.gif
https://media.giphy.com/media/8hFJfKMGbbwCQ/giphy.gif
https://media.giphy.com/media/cgj76CJbkhcSA/giphy.gif

>conversations do not just involve feelings, they are at their very core about feelings" [@stone_difficult_2003 p.13]

Feelings. To feel smart, to feel less clumsy, to feel busy, to avoid the fear of failure, to feel wanted or needed, to feel successful, to be repelled by ambition, to feel less lonely, to be respected, valued, loved even. To feel superior, less inferior, to feel astonished, eager, energetic, confused, excited, significant or insignificant. 

The wild spaces of our analogue bodies understand these things. I am never just this or that, never just busy or needy, nor superior or inferior. And with all these feelings, all these states and traits we are all dancing. They are dances of self-loathing, dances of love and laughter, dances of patience and care, dances of pride and pleasure, of honesty and lies. I mean, who _are you_ if there's nothing wrong with you? 
 
[dance - for camera - Bowie's sound and vision, playback on computer - just through the speakers] 

It doesn't matter how this dance is recorded, how this dance ends up online or even on this screen, there exists a remarkable -- and remarkably beautiful -- gap in resolution between the dance and its digitally recorded other. This gap is not about how it looks, the shapes in space, the timings, the gradations and articulations of joints, even the tone of muscles: the very very many things that make up the dancing body. Yes, the dancing is performative, a digital version formative. And that gap in resolution ...

Not something lost, something missing. 

, in reality, formative, rather than performative. s so true that our wildly and radically analogue bodies are performative, and capable of performance. It's not that this dance is performative, but also that it's formative. 

Divert here into a few brief notes on embodied knowledge. Wikipedia: diverts to tacit knowledge. List here from that one article of various terms that could arguably mean the same (or similar) thing. The lack of precision is chronically characteristic of so much dance scholarship that discusses embodied knowledge. 

worth glenna Batson's thinking? 



In August and September 2019 the New Zealand born dancer-choreographer Shaun McLeod and I (also, and not coincidentally a New Zealand born dancer-choreographer) did nothing nearly as fancy or smart as Weckert or Zuboff. Nor did we do anything that seems to be related. Authentic movement.

What can be said about what happened in that space? That is, what could we -- meaning all of us in this room -- agree on? What was available to our senses from the outside? What could we hear or see? One person had their eyes closed all of the time, or close to all of the time. While they had their eyes closed they moved around the space, sometimes this movement was more like a series of stillnesses, other times it was very everyday: like walking, or sitting, or lying. Still other times this person might shake or do things that were a little less everyday. These movements were sometimes strung together; most of us in this room would call that -- or recognise it as -- contemporary dance, or somatically informed contemporary dance. But it was definitely not the kind of contemporary dancing I've seen on "So You Think You Can Dance", or even at bigger Western dance venues around. I would say this person looked a little like they were *feeling* or perhaps *sensing*, or searching. But I couldn't be sure, and nor do I think we could all agree on this. Finish the description -- other person what they are doing.

Build photos in here. So, what we can agree on based on you trusting my description. but here is all that is left for us to look at. how many photos. randomly taken. in some ways its rich material compared with my description -- we see clothing, shapes, the room, positions on the floor, the light, faces, postures, hints of gestures, expressions. but in other ways I'd suggest these images are low-resolution documents from the activity itself. that an enormous quantity of experiential data have not made it from what was in the room, to what you can see here. we certainly can infer some things from these photos, not least of all the movements or actions of Shaun or me. We are inferring movement.  

mention something about it not requiring expertise. that anyone could do this. its inordinately simple in form, but vastly open-ended in possible experential complexity.

Go from this to embodied knowledge. 

>Here, the somatic intelligence is prioritized as the main tool in this research process. As one of the forms of the physical intelligence, it is an experiential corporal modality, a form of embodied knowledge that can be described as an increased skill to sense, to perceive and to relate. [@choiniere_somatic/embodiment/technology_2018 p.195]

somatic intelligence ... is "one of the forms of physical intelligence", "a form of embodied knowledge that can be described as an increased skill to sense, to perceive and to relate."

three abstract terms in one sentence 
somatic intelligence is subset of physical intelligence?
I don't get the 'increased' bit. 
what are the other forms? 
to sense what? to perceive what?
to relate to whom or what?

But the clincher is that we assuming an enormous amount based on what is available to our senses. What if we -- meaning dance researchers -- are simply projecting a whole lot of desire onto what we can see? That in some respects our livelihoods and identities are dependent on the existence of a concept like embodied knowledge. And if we say enough times "this is embodied knowledge, this is embodied knowledge, this is embodied knowledge, this is embodied knowledge" -- like a deep mantra to the academic gods -- then we start to accept it as the truth. Not even _a_ truth, but _the_ truth. It's not unlike taking a deep inhalation of a glass of red wine, and saying the words "cinnamon and blackcurrant". Others in the room are infected by these ideas, not the scents themselves, but nevertheless will swear blind they can smell cinnamon and blackcurrent. We are, after all, beautifully suggestible beings. 

Ben Spatz recently advertised a workshop in which he describes ... 
Journal of Embodied Research.
Does that mean all the other journals only handle disembodied research? 

The problem gets messier still. Because, as a participant in these simple dance experiments I can -- I want to say _testify_ -- that there is something quite profound going on that is not at all visible from the outside.  describe experience: freedom, non-judgement, agency, patience, calm, pleasure, openness, capacity, possibility, sillyness, playfulness, carefreeness, effortless, energised. And just because these qualities are not able to be seen does not mean I did not experience them. This is key: invisibility. The photographs carry none of that experiential information. Zero. Nada. Nulla. Niente. 

But was there embodied knowledge zipping around in that room? If we can agree -- can we agree? -- that embodied knowledge is ...
then yes, with my experience as a dancer and a watcher of others dancing, I would say I saw those qualities: of understanding, experience, decision making, attention. But how did I see them? And what was it I was seeing? Things get pretty hairy then. And it would be much harder to agree on how it was that I was seeing such things, and what I was seeing that made me think or feel those things. It makes me think that what we are dealing with is an epistemic house of cards and I am quite happy with that idea. 

Placing my scepticism aside, I feel comfortable to suggest that Shaun and I both _showed_ or _formed_ examples of people deploying or revealing embodied knowledge. That the experiences were rich for us. And not occasionally rich; _always_ rich; it happened every time. It was no fluke. They were consistently rich and complex experiences. Variable, but always rich. Except one experiment with music when Shaun had what can only be described as a bad trip. We kept going back to them like children wanting to go back into the water -- excited to try again, to go back in to that state of wildly still abandon. 

Problem 1: what we can observe bears little or no relationship to experiential complexity of what happened. high resolution experience, low resolution representation of that experience (regardless of how sophisticated the website is: bring up motionbank, etc). AM as paradigmatic case?

Problem 2: research is fundamentally about noticing change. that we understand something differently as a consequence of spending time with it. could be intervention, could be a phenomenon. caveat that noticing no change is something as well.  

Second problem is revealing. Can we all agree that there was embodied knowledge in that laboratory space? But this in itself is an absurd question. I mean when is there not embodied knowledge in any room? It's here now. We don't have to be moving. So, do we then mean a certain level or quantity of embodied knowledge? Is there some kind of threshold when embodied knowledge becomes useful or noticeable? Or when we use the term 'embodied research' do we just mean research that focuses on the body by people with bodies sensitised to the complexities of the moving, sensing body? Perhaps I am being provocatively simplistic here but sometimes it sure feels as if that embodied emperor isn't wearing any clothes; not that I'd want to point that out.

Yet even given the vagaries and ambiguities of doing embodied research that yields embodied knowledge, the key question for any of us involved in any research practice of any kind is: 

>What do we understand differently as a consequence of this practice and how might that understanding be shared or of consequence to our research community? 

How have our thinking/practices changed? How might they be useful to others? These differences were circumstantial. Came about through the practice -- something unable to be described/working with photos. But then also reading/thinking. 

What we care about _and_ what matters most.

I think there are three key insights -- or ideas -- from this work that I care about and that I think might matter to us in our current conversations. These are (in order of coming to mind or "development"!): 1) the body as an analogue site able to resist datafication; 2) resolution of experience; 3) embodied knowledge as a proxy.

Shift from the work we were doing to the work I have been doing. This is messy. For instance, reading Zuboff at the same time. Just an accident. 

What I now understand differently was not about embodiment, or insights into the nature and experience of our sensitised and sensitising bodies. The state, quality or even quantity of 'embodiment' in this research was merely a thing. But it wasn't any _thing_ special, and wasn't anything that people haven't already been doing for a long long time in authentic movement. I can make no claims about the uniqueness of the practice itself.

These differences -- or understandings -- were, in reality an accident. A series of unlinked ideas and possibilities that happened to end up, like two people sitting in the same room at a party. No predetermined insight or outcomes eminating from a detailed research design. Just change, or cirumstance. This is not to diminish these ideas, I care about them and I think they are important. Rather, I just want to acknowlege that Shaun and I were lost in the "mangle of practice".[@pickering_mangle_1995] And, to a certain, extent, I still am lost in that same mangle.  

(archiving or documenting the invisible) An accident of thinking and iteration -- what if we insert a camera into this predominantly invisible experience/practice? What might the ocular-centric recording device of our time (the smartphone) do to the unseen? That was a question that occurred to us early in the practice. add here about reading Zuboff. A coincidence. 

But then, one or two months after we finished the work together, I happened to be reading -- for an entirely different project -- Boaventura de Sousa Santos's 2001 article _Toward an Epistemology of Blindness_ [-@santos_toward_2001]. de Sousa Santos's thinking was simply that "the resolution level of our [scientific] methods is higher than the resolution level of our theories." (p.261) In effect, I robbed de Sousa Santos of his thinking in a particular field and for a particular context, to help make sense of the relationship between experience and representation in the work with Shaun. Or perhaps I just borrowed his thinking. It's different though from a citation because he was writing for an utterly different context, and with utterly different ambitions for how the thinking might be met and used. It's not a loan either. More like a digital theft when the owner doesn't lose any materials or things, after all his thinking as presented in that writing is endlessly reproducible. But some of its aura or value is diluted as it is dropped into a different world, with different ideologies, different practices, and different needs. But I digress.

add why resolution is a useful term. datafied.

It was, I think, about resolution; or resolutions of experience. It

"coarse-grain"




- high resolution experiences
- low resolution 'articulation'
de Sousa Santos combined with Zuboff. 

1. resolution
2. analogueness of the human body. (in relation to datafication)
3. proxy of embodied knowledge devalues rich experiences that are unable to be discussed. finger pointing moon.



>If the key epistemic question is "who, when, why is constructing knowledges?"[^3] then in this presentation I will attempt to discuss the epistemic _why_ of experiences that are unable to be discussed. They are experiences of politics and humility that underpin the radically analogue nature of the human body; they are experiences that exceed "algorithmic description";[^4] perhaps they are even experiences or _acts_ of "epistemic disobedience".[^5]

 

Finish by tying back to Zuboff and our bodies. 

Finish by getting people to turn back on their phones. 

## edit bin

Mention Emma's idea: 

>I think for me that at the root of it is the counterpart of dissociation, ie splitting from body experience often caused by trauma. Not sure that’s much help. I do think embodiment exists and its not just having a body but very hard to point to it via language.

and asked myself how it might help understand the discrepanci And it was by robbing de Sousa Santos of his thinking for one context (that of higher and lower resolution levels between theories and methods) that I tore the term _resolution_ from one context and linked it together 

although perhaps if I were really desperate I might make some claims about the inappropriately clumsy role of the smartphone in the practice.

Commit message:

add materials by Davidson about embodied understanding

20191129 - performance knowledges conference malta/20200206 - corporeal epistemics - presentation plan.md, after:

# Corporeal epistemics

In February 2020 the German artist Simon Weckert put 99 smartphones into a small red trolley, walked around Berlin and created what he calls a "virtual traffic jam" in Google Maps.[@weckert_google_2020]

In January 2019, the social psychologist Shoshana Zuboff published a book called _Surveillance Capitalism_. In it she uses the word _rendition_ to describe a two-sided process. On one side are the technologies of surveillance capitalism that are designed to "render our experience into data, as in rendering oil from fat".[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.1] On the other side are "every time we encounter a digital interface we make our experience available to 'datafication'".[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.1] We _render_ "unto surveillance capitalism" a continuous supply of raw materials. 

According to Zuboff, the rendition of our bodies begins quite simply with our phones.[@zuboff_age_2019 Chapter 8.2] 

So, let's begin by turning off our mobile phones. Turning them off completely. Humour me. There's no need to be jaded or cynical. There's time for that in the next session. We can quietly create the opposite of Weckert's virtual traffic jam, and in its place create a gap in the map. A small absence. A silence. It's just us. Untracked for 15 minutes. Going dark. Bliss. We can create a wild space. Like the body. A wild space: unpredictable and inextractable. A place for our analogue selves and our radically analogue bodies. A place where something is not simply yes or no, this or that, 1 or 0, anything but boolean, untouched, untouchable. A body that, even just briefly, resists the facts and fictions of sampling, the logic and ideology of data, and the datafication of the world. It is wild space of feelings. Yes feelings. [gif] Those things that drive all conversations, all experiences. Nuanced, primitive, primal. All that we are saying, all that we are hearing, all that we are communicating and proposing, is driven by feelings: 

<iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/p6rh3yrSPF7Fe" width="480" height="262" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe>

https://media.giphy.com/media/QvXe5wq8w94A0/giphy.gif
https://media.giphy.com/media/XWBgzVcODRNSw/giphy.gif
https://media.giphy.com/media/HkQ3Amj9DViec/giphy.gif
https://media.giphy.com/media/8hFJfKMGbbwCQ/giphy.gif
https://media.giphy.com/media/cgj76CJbkhcSA/giphy.gif

>conversations do not just involve feelings, they are at their very core about feelings" [@stone_difficult_2003 p.13]

Feelings. To feel smart, to feel less clumsy, to feel busy, to avoid the fear of failure, to feel wanted or needed, to feel successful, to be repelled by ambition, to feel less lonely, to be respected, valued, loved even. To feel superior, less inferior, to feel astonished, eager, energetic, confused, excited, significant or insignificant. 

The wild spaces of our analogue bodies understand these things. I am never just this or that, never just busy or needy, nor superior or inferior. And with all these feelings, all these states and traits we are all dancing. They are dances of self-loathing, dances of love and laughter, dances of patience and care, dances of pride and pleasure, of honesty and lies. I mean, who _are you_ if there's nothing wrong with you? 
 
[dance - for camera - Bowie's sound and vision, playback on computer - just through the speakers] 

It doesn't matter how this dance is recorded, how this dance ends up online or even on this screen, there exists a remarkable -- and remarkably beautiful -- gap in resolution between the dance and its digitally recorded other. This gap is not about how it looks, the shapes in space, the timings, the gradations and articulations of joints, even the tone of muscles: the very very many things that make up the dancing body. Yes, the dancing is performative, a digital version formative. And that gap in resolution ...

Not something lost, something missing. 

, in reality, formative, rather than performative. s so true that our wildly and radically analogue bodies are performative, and capable of performance. It's not that this dance is performative, but also that it's formative. 

Divert here into a few brief notes on embodied knowledge. Wikipedia: diverts to tacit knowledge. List here from that one article of various terms that could arguably mean the same (or similar) thing. The lack of precision is chronically characteristic of so much dance scholarship that discusses embodied knowledge. 

worth glenna Batson's thinking? 



In August and September 2019 the New Zealand born dancer-choreographer Shaun McLeod and I (also, and not coincidentally a New Zealand born dancer-choreographer) did nothing nearly as fancy or smart as Weckert or Zuboff. Nor did we do anything that seems to be related. Authentic movement.

What can be said about what happened in that space? That is, what could we -- meaning all of us in this room -- agree on? What was available to our senses from the outside? What could we hear or see? One person had their eyes closed all of the time, or close to all of the time. While they had their eyes closed they moved around the space, sometimes this movement was more like a series of stillnesses, other times it was very everyday: like walking, or sitting, or lying. Still other times this person might shake or do things that were a little less everyday. These movements were sometimes strung together; most of us in this room would call that -- or recognise it as -- contemporary dance, or somatically informed contemporary dance. But it was definitely not the kind of contemporary dancing I've seen on "So You Think You Can Dance", or even at bigger Western dance venues around. I would say this person looked a little like they were *feeling* or perhaps *sensing*, or searching. But I couldn't be sure, and nor do I think we could all agree on this. Finish the description -- other person what they are doing.

Build photos in here. So, what we can agree on based on you trusting my description. but here is all that is left for us to look at. how many photos. randomly taken. in some ways its rich material compared with my description -- we see clothing, shapes, the room, positions on the floor, the light, faces, postures, hints of gestures, expressions. but in other ways I'd suggest these images are low-resolution documents from the activity itself. that an enormous quantity of experiential data have not made it from what was in the room, to what you can see here. we certainly can infer some things from these photos, not least of all the movements or actions of Shaun or me. We are inferring movement.  

mention something about it not requiring expertise. that anyone could do this. its inordinately simple in form, but vastly open-ended in possible experential complexity.

Go from this to embodied knowledge. 

>Here, the somatic intelligence is prioritized as the main tool in this research process. As one of the forms of the physical intelligence, it is an experiential corporal modality, a form of embodied knowledge that can be described as an increased skill to sense, to perceive and to relate. [@choiniere_somatic/embodiment/technology_2018 p.195]

somatic intelligence ... is "one of the forms of physical intelligence", "a form of embodied knowledge that can be described as an increased skill to sense, to perceive and to relate."

three abstract terms in one sentence 
somatic intelligence is subset of physical intelligence?
I don't get the 'increased' bit. 
what are the other forms? 
to sense what? to perceive what?
to relate to whom or what?

But the clincher is that we assuming an enormous amount based on what is available to our senses. What if we -- meaning dance researchers -- are simply projecting a whole lot of desire onto what we can see? That in some respects our livelihoods and identities are dependent on the existence of a concept like embodied knowledge. And if we say enough times "this is embodied knowledge, this is embodied knowledge, this is embodied knowledge, this is embodied knowledge" -- like a deep mantra to the academic gods -- then we start to accept it as the truth. Not even _a_ truth, but _the_ truth. It's not unlike taking a deep inhalation of a glass of red wine, and saying the words "cinnamon and blackcurrant". Others in the room are infected by these ideas, not the scents themselves, but nevertheless will swear blind they can smell cinnamon and blackcurrent. We are, after all, beautifully suggestible beings. 

Ben Spatz recently advertised a workshop in which he describes ... 
Journal of Embodied Research.
Does that mean all the other journals only handle disembodied research? 

The problem gets messier still. Because, as a participant in these simple dance experiments I can -- I want to say _testify_ -- that there is something quite profound going on that is not at all visible from the outside.  describe experience: freedom, non-judgement, agency, patience, calm, pleasure, openness, capacity, possibility, sillyness, playfulness, carefreeness, effortless, energised. And just because these qualities are not able to be seen does not mean I did not experience them. This is key: invisibility. The photographs carry none of that experiential information. Zero. Nada. Nulla. Niente. 

But was there embodied knowledge zipping around in that room? If we can agree -- can we agree? -- that embodied knowledge is ...
then yes, with my experience as a dancer and a watcher of others dancing, I would say I saw those qualities: of understanding, experience, decision making, attention. But how did I see them? And what was it I was seeing? Things get pretty hairy then. And it would be much harder to agree on how it was that I was seeing such things, and what I was seeing that made me think or feel those things. It makes me think that what we are dealing with is an epistemic house of cards and I am quite happy with that idea. 

>Why is it then that dance, with its legitimate claim to specialized knowledge of the body, has never been consulted in these debates? d[@davidson_somatics_2013 p.4]

>For dance practitioners, somatic intelligence constitutes a model of corporeal experience: a form of embodied knowledge that can also be described as a skill for sensing, relating and ‘revealing’.[@davidson_somatics_2013 p.6]

>the body’s role as privileged site in the construction of knowledge [@davidson_somatics_2013 p.11]

>Furthermore, Damásio’s theory emphasizes that notions like experience, consciousness and perception are not abstract concepts, but are active embodied practices resulting from a continuous, recursive interaction with the environment.[@de_lima_trans-meaning_2013 p.24]

>technologies that extend perception, allowing human beings to see, touch, feel, hear, manipulate and understand what to date has remained invisible to the senses or hidden in matter, the body and the universe. [@davidson_somatics_2013 p.5] 
- am I describing or imagining the limits of tech? the directionality of this quote is odd in context of this research


Placing my scepticism aside, I feel comfortable to suggest that Shaun and I both _showed_ or _formed_ examples of people deploying or revealing embodied knowledge. That the experiences were rich for us. And not occasionally rich; _always_ rich; it happened every time. It was no fluke. They were consistently rich and complex experiences. Variable, but always rich. Except one experiment with music when Shaun had what can only be described as a bad trip. We kept going back to them like children wanting to go back into the water -- excited to try again, to go back in to that state of wildly still abandon. 

Problem 1: what we can observe bears little or no relationship to experiential complexity of what happened. high resolution experience, low resolution representation of that experience (regardless of how sophisticated the website is: bring up motionbank, etc). AM as paradigmatic case?

Problem 2: research is fundamentally about noticing change. that we understand something differently as a consequence of spending time with it. could be intervention, could be a phenomenon. caveat that noticing no change is something as well.  

Second problem is revealing. Can we all agree that there was embodied knowledge in that laboratory space? But this in itself is an absurd question. I mean when is there not embodied knowledge in any room? It's here now. We don't have to be moving. So, do we then mean a certain level or quantity of embodied knowledge? Is there some kind of threshold when embodied knowledge becomes useful or noticeable? Or when we use the term 'embodied research' do we just mean research that focuses on the body by people with bodies sensitised to the complexities of the moving, sensing body? Perhaps I am being provocatively simplistic here but sometimes it sure feels as if that embodied emperor isn't wearing any clothes; not that I'd want to point that out.

Yet even given the vagaries and ambiguities of doing embodied research that yields embodied knowledge, the key question for any of us involved in any research practice of any kind is: 

>What do we understand differently as a consequence of this practice and how might that understanding be shared or of consequence to our research community? 

How have our thinking/practices changed? How might they be useful to others? These differences were circumstantial. Came about through the practice -- something unable to be described/working with photos. But then also reading/thinking. 

What we care about _and_ what matters most.

I think there are three key insights -- or ideas -- from this work that I care about and that I think might matter to us in our current conversations. These are (in order of coming to mind or "development"!): 1) the body as an analogue site able to resist datafication; 2) resolution of experience; 3) embodied knowledge as a proxy.

Shift from the work we were doing to the work I have been doing. This is messy. For instance, reading Zuboff at the same time. Just an accident. 

What I now understand differently was not about embodiment, or insights into the nature and experience of our sensitised and sensitising bodies. The state, quality or even quantity of 'embodiment' in this research was merely a thing. But it wasn't any _thing_ special, and wasn't anything that people haven't already been doing for a long long time in authentic movement. I can make no claims about the uniqueness of the practice itself.

These differences -- or understandings -- were, in reality an accident. A series of unlinked ideas and possibilities that happened to end up, like two people sitting in the same room at a party. No predetermined insight or outcomes eminating from a detailed research design. Just change, or cirumstance. This is not to diminish these ideas, I care about them and I think they are important. Rather, I just want to acknowlege that Shaun and I were lost in the "mangle of practice".[@pickering_mangle_1995] And, to a certain, extent, I still am lost in that same mangle.  

(archiving or documenting the invisible) An accident of thinking and iteration -- what if we insert a camera into this predominantly invisible experience/practice? What might the ocular-centric recording device of our time (the smartphone) do to the unseen? That was a question that occurred to us early in the practice. add here about reading Zuboff. A coincidence. 

But then, one or two months after we finished the work together, I happened to be reading -- for an entirely different project -- Boaventura de Sousa Santos's 2001 article _Toward an Epistemology of Blindness_ [-@santos_toward_2001]. de Sousa Santos's thinking was simply that "the resolution level of our [scientific] methods is higher than the resolution level of our theories." (p.261) In effect, I robbed de Sousa Santos of his thinking in a particular field and for a particular context, to help make sense of the relationship between experience and representation in the work with Shaun. Or perhaps I just borrowed his thinking. It's different though from a citation because he was writing for an utterly different context, and with utterly different ambitions for how the thinking might be met and used. It's not a loan either. More like a digital theft when the owner doesn't lose any materials or things, after all his thinking as presented in that writing is endlessly reproducible. But some of its aura or value is diluted as it is dropped into a different world, with different ideologies, different practices, and different needs. But I digress.

add why resolution is a useful term. datafied.

It was, I think, about resolution; or resolutions of experience. It

"coarse-grain"




- high resolution experiences
- low resolution 'articulation'
de Sousa Santos combined with Zuboff. 

1. resolution
2. analogueness of the human body. (in relation to datafication)
3. proxy of embodied knowledge devalues rich experiences that are unable to be discussed. finger pointing moon.



>If the key epistemic question is "who, when, why is constructing knowledges?"[^3] then in this presentation I will attempt to discuss the epistemic _why_ of experiences that are unable to be discussed. They are experiences of politics and humility that underpin the radically analogue nature of the human body; they are experiences that exceed "algorithmic description";[^4] perhaps they are even experiences or _acts_ of "epistemic disobedience".[^5]

 

Finish by tying back to Zuboff and our bodies. 

Finish by getting people to turn back on their phones. 

## edit bin

Mention Emma's idea: 

>I think for me that at the root of it is the counterpart of dissociation, ie splitting from body experience often caused by trauma. Not sure that’s much help. I do think embodiment exists and its not just having a body but very hard to point to it via language.

and asked myself how it might help understand the discrepanci And it was by robbing de Sousa Santos of his thinking for one context (that of higher and lower resolution levels between theories and methods) that I tore the term _resolution_ from one context and linked it together 

although perhaps if I were really desperate I might make some claims about the inappropriately clumsy role of the smartphone in the practice.
