20200109 - workshop ideas/workshop-ideas-saying-yes.md, before:

# workshop ideas

## 20200115 - snowden and data

>Our data wanders far and wide. Our data wanders endlessly.

>We start generating this data before we are born, when technologies detect us in utero, and our data will continue to proliferate even after we die. Of course, our consciously created memories, the records that we choose to keep, comprise just a sliver of the information that has been wrung out of our lives—most of it unconsciously, or without our consent—by business and government surveillance. We are the first people in the history of the planet for whom this is true, the first people to be burdened with data immortality, the fact that our collected records might have an eternal existence. This is why we have a special duty. We must ensure that these records of our pasts can’t be turned against us, or turned against our children.

>Who among us can predict the future? Who would dare to? The answer to the first question is no one, really, and the answer to the second is everyone, especially every government and business on the planet. This is what that data of ours is used for. Algorithms analyze it for patterns of established behavior in order to extrapolate behaviors to come, a type of digital prophecy that’s only slightly more accurate than analog methods like palm reading. Once you go digging into the actual technical mechanisms by which predictability is calculated, you come to understand that its science is, in fact, anti-scientific, and fatally misnamed: predictability is actually manipulation. A website that tells you that because you liked this book you might also like books by James Clapper or Michael Hayden isn’t offering an educated guess as much as a mechanism of subtle coercion.

## 20200109 - yes no

worth taking a look at this?:

<https://www.becktench.com/blog/2020/1/5/great-lengths-a-blog-series-about-setting-boundaries-with-social-media>

>Many students I work with help themselves "let be" by mentally whispering an encouraging word or phrase. You might feel the grip of fear or the swelling of deep grief and whisper yes. You might say, "This too" or "It's okay."

>There are degrees of Allowing. At first, you may feel you're just going through the motions, "putting up" with unpleasant sensations. Or you may realize you've made a secret bargain—"I'll say yes to shame, and it will magically disappear." Yet even simply whispering yes begins to give you a sense of more space, more room for what is there. Your entire being is not so rallied in resistance. As you continue to practice, your defenses will ease up. You may feel a physical sense of yielding or relaxing and opening to waves of experience.

-- Tara Brach [@brach_radical_2020 p.26]


>Our deeply grooved habits of "no,' our angry reactivity, anxious worry, defensiveness, addictive behavior, and self-blame, keep us from living true to ourselves. When we interrupt these habits with a mindful, allowing presence, we begin to access our full human potential. This is the power and freedom inherent in "yes."  [@brach_radical_2020 p.28]

>Saying yes is unfamiliar and disorienting and feels potentially risky. When we perceive a threat, our primal conditioning is to contract and say no. [@brach_radical_2020 p.20]

>The deepest transformations in our lives come down to something very simple: We learn to respond, not react, to what is going on inside us. [@brach_radical_2020 p.17]

- post-its of yes and no
- saying yes or no to images or things
- discussion of yes and no
- judgement (with and without)
- this not that, that not this
- radical analogue-ness
- how to make things without judgement?

## things I might need 

- post-its
- butcher's paper
- pens/markers
- blu-tac
- data projector

Commit message:

add formative v performative for workshop prep

20200109 - workshop ideas/workshop-ideas-saying-yes.md, after:

# workshop ideas

## 20200116 - formative

- Formative v performative (from book “A time to build”)
- thinking of the movement practice as formative

## 20200115 - snowden and data

>Our data wanders far and wide. Our data wanders endlessly.

>We start generating this data before we are born, when technologies detect us in utero, and our data will continue to proliferate even after we die. Of course, our consciously created memories, the records that we choose to keep, comprise just a sliver of the information that has been wrung out of our lives—most of it unconsciously, or without our consent—by business and government surveillance. We are the first people in the history of the planet for whom this is true, the first people to be burdened with data immortality, the fact that our collected records might have an eternal existence. This is why we have a special duty. We must ensure that these records of our pasts can’t be turned against us, or turned against our children.

>Who among us can predict the future? Who would dare to? The answer to the first question is no one, really, and the answer to the second is everyone, especially every government and business on the planet. This is what that data of ours is used for. Algorithms analyze it for patterns of established behavior in order to extrapolate behaviors to come, a type of digital prophecy that’s only slightly more accurate than analog methods like palm reading. Once you go digging into the actual technical mechanisms by which predictability is calculated, you come to understand that its science is, in fact, anti-scientific, and fatally misnamed: predictability is actually manipulation. A website that tells you that because you liked this book you might also like books by James Clapper or Michael Hayden isn’t offering an educated guess as much as a mechanism of subtle coercion.

## 20200109 - yes no

worth taking a look at this?:

<https://www.becktench.com/blog/2020/1/5/great-lengths-a-blog-series-about-setting-boundaries-with-social-media>

>Many students I work with help themselves "let be" by mentally whispering an encouraging word or phrase. You might feel the grip of fear or the swelling of deep grief and whisper yes. You might say, "This too" or "It's okay."

>There are degrees of Allowing. At first, you may feel you're just going through the motions, "putting up" with unpleasant sensations. Or you may realize you've made a secret bargain—"I'll say yes to shame, and it will magically disappear." Yet even simply whispering yes begins to give you a sense of more space, more room for what is there. Your entire being is not so rallied in resistance. As you continue to practice, your defenses will ease up. You may feel a physical sense of yielding or relaxing and opening to waves of experience.

-- Tara Brach [@brach_radical_2020 p.26]


>Our deeply grooved habits of "no,' our angry reactivity, anxious worry, defensiveness, addictive behavior, and self-blame, keep us from living true to ourselves. When we interrupt these habits with a mindful, allowing presence, we begin to access our full human potential. This is the power and freedom inherent in "yes."  [@brach_radical_2020 p.28]

>Saying yes is unfamiliar and disorienting and feels potentially risky. When we perceive a threat, our primal conditioning is to contract and say no. [@brach_radical_2020 p.20]

>The deepest transformations in our lives come down to something very simple: We learn to respond, not react, to what is going on inside us. [@brach_radical_2020 p.17]

- post-its of yes and no
- saying yes or no to images or things
- discussion of yes and no
- judgement (with and without)
- this not that, that not this
- radical analogue-ness
- how to make things without judgement?

## things I might need 

- post-its
- butcher's paper
- pens/markers
- blu-tac
- data projector
